Adapted from the book Hello Cruel World, published by Seven Stories Press, New York, U.S.A., 2006, copyright © 2006 by Kate Bornstein.

Code and design © 2010 Daniel Siders & Apollic Software, LLC. 

Original book design by Jon Gilbert.

Kate has sites at http://katebornstein.typepad.com/, KateBornstein.com and on Twitter as @katebornstein

Hello Cruel World is officially located online at http://www.hellocruelworld.net

Seven Stories press is located online at http://www.sevenstories.com/

For support, email help@apollicsoftware.com

#break#
Hands down, each of these steps is worth a try before deciding to end your life. If ythey are just what you needed, then you can read the rest of this app for the funny parts.

I. CALL A SUICIDE HOTLINE A suicide hotline's job is to help you to feel better and live a little bit longer. If a warm voice on the other end of the telephone sounds like it might offer you some relief, then please give it a try.

In the US Call 1-800-273-8255

II. TALK TO YOUR PAL Do you know anyone you can talk to? Someone kind? Someone you love? Someone who loves you? If you can call or go see someone like that, please do! That, as they say, is what friends are for.

III. SEE A DOCTOR, THERAPIST, OR ALTERNATIVE HEALER If what's going on with you is physical, then go see a doctor. If it's not a physical problem, give talking with a therapist or counselor a try. If a pill once or twice a day will help you feel better about life and yourself, then please, take the pill. I take mine.

In the case that the sight of you is enough to make men scream and strong women weep, try a clinic that is friendlier to people like you. I've always found clinic staff and doctors to be comforting and empowering. They've mostly seen it all. As a bonus, a lot of clinics are starting to provide alternative healing, which is great when Western medicine solutions give you the creeps.

IV. CALL THE POLICE OR EMERGENCY SERVICES If someone has hurt you, or is threatening to hurt you, please call 911. There are also rape crisis centers, centers for battered youth, and other emergency centers where you may find good people with the experience and resources to help you out.

V. CALL SOMEONE WHO TAUGHT YOU SOMETHING YOU'LL ALWAYS TREASURE I've been lucky enough to have had guidance counselors, teachers, professors, and even a couple of chaplains of several religions who've cared enough about me to hold my hand through some pretty tough times. I'm still friends with some of them after thirty or forty years. Is there a teacher like that in your life?

Depending on their own personal moral code, or on local and state laws where you live, a teacher or member of the clergy may or may not be required to report your situation to someone authorized to know and help you out. Ask them first if that's the case, and make your decision accordingly.

VI. GET TO A MEETING! If you think you might have any sort of addiction, this would be a swell time to get to a twelve-step meeting. Most of the time, the idea of going to a meeting sets my teeth on edge, and makes me want to run screaming in the other direction. But honestly, I don't regret any twelve-step meeting I've ever attended, and if you've got any kind of sobriety, you know I'm telling the truth.

VII. CONNECT WITH PEOPLE ONLINE If you don't have your own Internet connection, find someone else's you can use. Your school, the public library, a friend, or an Internet café are all possibilities that you might want to look into.

There are online peer chat rooms, forums, and bulletin boards where people discuss the subject of killing themselves, or how other people are killing themselves. There are websites and blogs dedicated to suicide intervention. Someone out there is going to want to talk with you about this and they may say just the right thing to make you feel better about yourself and your life.

If for any reason none of these more traditional alternatives sound right for you, or if you've already tried them and they just plain don't work and you're still on the razor's edge of to be or not to be, then by all means, move on to the rest of the book, which is neither proven nor condoned by those who've studied suicide prevention. 