Keep Moving zzz 3 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz real life spirit body zzz Do you ever get stir crazy, like you can't stand being where you are any longer? Do you know how good it feels to finally get out of there? Less and less movement is a sign of less and less life. Dead things don't move at all. Any kind of motion means there's some life. Learning how to move well will help you learn how to live better.

The process of living can be reduced to a simple series of acts: deciding to move, moving, deciding to stop, and stopping. You can move with the intention of feeling better, and you can move with the intention of feeling worse. Moving through life with the intention of feeling better is what's going to make life worth living for you.

TRY THIS: Do something as slowly as you can, or do nothing as quickly as you can. Take thirty minutes to get yourself across the room, without ever coming to a complete stop. If you can't get yourself across the room, take thirty minutes to imagine yourself doing it.

Follow up with these: Once you've got the hang of constant conscious motion and constant change, try #29, Play a game you like to play or #64, Go on a quest.xxxxxxxxxxTake a Deep Breath and Touch Yourself zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Easy zzz G zzz spirit body delight zzz Would you like to feel a miracle? Our bodies are miraculous, no matter what shape they're in. Consciously breathing and touching ourselves reminds us that it's possible to feel better. When we don't know how to describe what it is that we're feeling, our bodies will always tell us the
truth of the situation. We so often hold our bodies responsible for our bad fortune that we forget how good they feel when we treat them well.

So, breathe. If you want to calm yourself, breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth. For lots of air, breathe in and out through your mouth. Don't force your exhales, just let them happen. Pay attention to your breathing over the course of a day. There's a great deal to learn from the truth of your own body.

THE RESILIENT EDGE OF RESISTANCE: Press your palm onto the back of your other hand. Press your hands together, using pressure from both. Now, let the pressure lighten up until it doesn't feel like you're pressing them together, but that they're supporting each other. This is what my girlfriend calls 'the resilient edge of resistance.' Touching yourself or someone else with this principle in mind can really change things in your life.

ADVANCED MODE: Touch yourself while you're breathing. Anywhere. Just consciously touch yourself, and feel what it feels like. That's all. Anywhere on your body that's comfortable for you,
touch. Keep breathing!

WAY-ADVANCED MODE: Breathe and touch yourself erotically, anywhere on your body. Just use the resilient edge of resistance and discover what feels good and what feels bad. Give yourself an orgasm if the opportunity comes up and you're feeling okay about that. Orgasms are great for getting rid of bad headaches and most general grumpiness. DID YOU KNOW Orgasms come from more places than just your genitals. You can make yourself come with your breath. Over and over again, as a matter of fact. I swear! It's great. I learned how from some experts.xxxxxxxxxxKill Some Time Instead zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Easy zzz G zzz comfort spirit zzz Under pressure? Never have enough time to complete everything that you have to do? If time is pushing you around, kill it. Time, the way it's served up to us here by puritanical corporate America, needs to die anyway. It's far too demanding and gives you very little in return, even if you make the very most of it. After we kill off that kind of time, we can use time differently so that life isn't such a pressure cooker. Here are some surefire time killers I use whenever I possibly can:
I take a nap.
I observe a Sabbath.
I use some of my own time to be kind to someone else.

An advanced time-killer: Sit with your eyes closed for three minutes. If the only place you can do this for three whole uninterrupted minutes is the bathroom, then scoot there now and bring this book with you. Sit still with your eyes closed for three whole minutes, and witness your thoughts go by. Try not to engage in any kind of dialogue with your thoughts, just watch them pass. If it helps, you can envision a thought floating into and out of your mind on a cloud. Even thunderclouds pass by eventually. See if you can increase the amount of time you spend doing this.xxxxxxxxxxTreat Yourself Like an Honored Guest zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Difficult zzz G zzz comfort self-esteem zzz Around the world and across the ages, there's something nice that most humans and other sentient beings agree upon: when you've got guests, you treat them well. You wouldn't beat up on a guest you'd welcomed into your home, would you? 

In Shakespeare's Macbeth, the true horror wasn't that the Macbeths killed the king. That happened all the time. Their great offense was in killing the king while he was a guest in their home. That's why the Macbeths were not at first suspected of the crime. Who would suspect anyone of being so low? Everyone deserves to feel cared for, respected, and welcome. So, shouldn't we learn how to do that for ourselves?

Do you beat up on yourself much? Well, then stop. If you show up on the culture's radar as some sort of visible freak or outsider, you end up building your own world to walk through, so the very least you can do is make yourself feel welcome in that world. Try it out: spend one day living like you're some visiting dignitary in a world that welcomes and celebrates people like you. That's what living your life is supposed to feel like, no matter what kind of freak or outsider other people might think you are.

Do something really special for yourself. Something really nice, like a bubble bath or a piece of chocolate with fresh fruit. It's important to do that every now and then to remind yourself how nice it feels to be welcome and well cared for. 

Practice mode: If treating yourself better is difficult to do, or even imagine doing, use #25, Experiment on animals and small children, and practice treating them like honored guests.xxxxxxxxxxFinish Your Homework First zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Difficult zzz YG zzz safety rehersal zzz Schooling designed to make a sweeping, impersonal system work sucks. It is not at all tailored to your individual interests, strengths, or talents. It can make life not worth living. 

But it's not learning that's getting you down. It's getting through an educational system. So, work the system, change the system, or leave it, but make sure you keep on educating yourself, and as many other people as you can. 

The good news is that that no such system is the boss of you. You can have great autonomy in the things you choose to learn and pursue on your own time. When you're learning things that interest you, challenge you, and make life worth living, getting an education can be blissful and stimulating.

There's only one thing to do: your homework. Do you have a favorite field of interest? Biology? Math? History? Computer science? Give yourself assignments in that field, and exercise your mind. Treat yourself like the teacher you always wanted to have.

ENDURANCE MODE: Get to college, any college. Well, maybe not Bible College. But get to college by any means possible. Search for and find a field of study that makes you really happy and excited to be learning. Search for and find a mentor who helps you in your studies. Stay for years.

NEUROGENETIC MODE: Learn something new. It helps you grow new brain cells. Is that cool, or what? According to the decade-old field of neurogenesis, stress inhibits the growth of new brain cells, forming scars on our brains and causing depression. Simply learning something new helps to heal those scars, so we feel better. Yippee!

REVOLUTIONARY MODE: School yourself. Speak with other self-schoolers who are doing the kind of things you want to be doing, and get on with teaching yourself about whatever part of life is calling you. I don't have an advanced degree beyond my B.A., but my books get taught in doctoral programs. It all works out.xxxxxxxxxxJust Say No zzz 3 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz empowering self-esteem zzz Saying no to something bad now will always let you say yes to something better later. But standing up and saying no can also make you an instantly recognizable freak, and a target to the people who want you to say yes to something that is hurting you and/or others. 

No, I don't want to wear a dress, 
No, I don't want to play football, 
No, I refuse to support the criminally mean activities of an illegitimate, quasi-fascist corporate government. 

I've never been more proud of myself than at those times I've said no when I needed to. But saying no is just the first step. Acting on no is the second, and the third, and every other step along the way. 

There are alternatives to saying no when no is too hard to say. You could simply not say yes. That's called passive resistance. Check out the M. K. Gandhi Institute for Nonviolence (www.gandhiinstitute.org). 

Or, you could get yourself out of the reach of whoever you want to say no to. The Dalai Lama says no to China's occupation of Tibet like that (www.tibet.com).

Advanced mode: Use #93, Bring on Goliath, to say no to someone who's been intimidating you for too long.xxxxxxxxxxTrash Your Preference Files and Reboot zzz 2 zzz 2 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz clean slate zzz Outsiders go through quite a few identities, each with its own set of preferences for dealing with different situations. We can change our conscious preferences easily enough, but sometimes it can help to change the things we do habitually or unconsciously as well.

Try this: For three or four days, write down the little things you do that you normally don't think about doing, including any morning, afternoon, or evening routines, any habits you've got, your daily chores, how you deal with things that bore or annoy you, and the kind of music you're listening to most. Write down ten things you find yourself thinking about without your having chosen to think about them. Notice how you answer questions like 'How are you?' and 'How was your day?' 

Now you're ready to shut down and reboot. For three days, no TV, radio, internet, music, film, games, newspapers, magazines, and so forth. You can talk with people, but no communication with anything that can't speak back to you of its own intelligence. Be as aware as you possibly can of everything you say or do on a moment-to-moment basis, and try to make conscious, informed choices about what you say and what you do, without relying on the kind of choices you used to make. Make your new preference files as pristinely your own as they can possibly be. 

TIP: Keep a copy of your old preferences in your conscious memory files. Then you'll have a copy to put back in place in case you trash any good preferences by accident. It always pays to back up your files!

HERMIONE MODE: Use this alternative along with #38, Cast a spell, to devise and perform a cleansing and grounding ritual for yourself.xxxxxxxxxxPractice, Practice, Practice zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Easy zzz G zzz spirit rehersal zzz This may be the key to the whole fucking book. Practicing anything will keep you more conscious, honest, and more capable of laughing at yourself. It's based on the Zen principle, the way you do anything is the way you do everything.

To get good at something, we usually practice until we know how to do it well. Like walking, talking, eating, or even fucking.

Once something works, the things we do become unconscious habits or mindless routines. Like checking our email, doing our laundry, reading the paper, or even fucking. But because the way you do anything is the way you do everything, every single thing you do could be a conscious rehearsal for how you do everything else. Especially fucking.

Practice doing things more consciously. Before you start doing things, become aware of your intention to do them. Notice the difference between your intention to do something you already know how to do well, and your intention to do something you don't yet know how to do well.

Try to consciously perform one task well every day. It doesn't have to be something new or dramatic. Just do one thing consciously and well at least once a day.xxxxxxxxxxMake a Longer-Range Plan zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz real life zzz Feeling hopeless? Make a plan, any plan. Plan your day. Plan how you're going to get out of bed. Plan how you'll take over the world. Making plans builds up our hopes, and once we've got a glimmer of hope, we've got a reason to go on living. You can build up your hopes right now by making really simple plans.

When I was twelve years old, I wanted to be a girl. I knew there was no chance of ever making that happen, but my daydreams were enjoyable enough in themselves to make life worth living. In retrospect, my young fantasies were what allowed me to develop a goal and a plan to achieve it, even though I thought it was unachievable. Now, I see building hope as an essential and pleasurable step toward realization.

Try planning what the next fifteen minutes of your life will be like. When you're done making the plan, see if you are more or less interested in living. Do you feel a little better about life now that you have a plan? See how that works? Making the plan is as fun and as important as achieving it. The way the world works, many of our plans won't pan out. There's always some random element that we can't predict. And if our plans include other people? Ha! The best we can do is start the plan in motion and then hang on and enjoy the ride. So, try putting less importance on whether or not your plans succeed. Have more fun making them.

Advanced Mode: See #19, Make art out of it, and become an endurance artist. That's an artist who specializes in pieces that can last for days, months, and even years. Imagine living your life as art for all that time!

Way-advanced mode: See #91, Believe in your own paradox, and live fully in the now, at peace with your past and accomplishing your dream of a better future.xxxxxxxxxxBitch, Moan, Rant, or Rave zzz 3 zzz 3 zzz Easy zzz G zzz comfort zzz Oh, go for it. Give voice to your inner drama queen. You know you want to.

Dogs and cats make great listeners. So do understanding lovers and best friends.

The best person to bitch, moan, rant, or rave to is a person who will let you keep on going until you're done. Just take care not to aim your drama at your friends and loved ones. And if you're afraid you might overburden or frighten them with all your pathetic whimpering and hostile growling, try this: Set yourself a reasonable time limit, and mark it on a calendar. When your time's up, stop bitching and moaning and try #19, Make art out of it.xxxxxxxxxxTell a Lie zzz 1 zzz 2 zzz Too Easy zzz G zzz safety entertainment zzz First, the bad news. Lying always comes back to bite you on your butt. Telling a lie almost always triggers a string of more lies to cover up the first. And when you lie to someone, you almost always damage the trust they have in you. That said, where is there a person who has never told a lie?

It's completely okay to lie to protect yourself from someone who unjustly wants to hurt you, and it's usually okay to lie when what you're lying about won't hurt anyone anyway.

If you're going to lie, first get familiar with the mechanics, risks, and consequences of lies and lying. Play with lies consciously. Try these lying games out for size:

Tell a tall tale that could be true.
Tell a lie that sounds like the truth.
Pass for something other than what you are.
Be an imposter at least three different ways.
Tell a truth that no one will believe.
Tell two lies that cancel each other out.
Tell two truths that cancel each other out.

POP QUIZ! All three of these U.S. Presidents got caught lying in office. Who hurt the most people with his lies?xxxxxxxxxxSend out a Distress Signal zzz 2 zzz 2 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz hope faith self esteem zzz Devise a distress signal for yourself to let people know you're in trouble. If you can't say it all directly, say it obliquely.

On the next page are two of about one hundred pen and ink drawings I made in the 1970s, back when I was a member of the Church of Scientology. Scientologists believe that sexual perversion is a sign that a person is evil or in touch with someone else who is evil.

I made these pictures, thinking to myself that someone would see me crying for help. A lot of outlaws and outsiders feel alone and in need of support. Art helps to release such feelings. Draw, paint, or write your distress and let others see it. It doesn't matter if people get it. None of the Scientologists I showed the drawings to ever did. Or if they did, no one said a word. What mattered to me was that I was drawing these pictures and showing them to people. It helped me to stay alive for years. I knew that eventually someone would get it.xxxxxxxxxxAsk for Help zzz 3 zzz 3 zzz Difficult zzz G zzz spirit real life zzz One of the greatest things about asking for help is that you might actually get some. And still, this can be one of the most difficult alternatives in the book. Even with trusted people in our lives, it may still be difficult to do, because for some reason, we often don't feel good about asking for help. But turning to others for comfort and guidance is a necessary part of life. If you've got a friend, lover, or family member you can turn to, do it. If you don't have someone like that, take a look right now at #47, Find a friend. Keep in mind that people who love you feel great when you turn to them for help. So do total strangers. It gives us the opportunity to do something good for someone.

Please use this alternative as frequently as you possibly can, because the whole world gets better every time you do.xxxxxxxxxxRun away and Hide zzz 4 zzz 3 zzz Difficult zzz G zzz safety real life zzz Running away and hiding always gives you more options. But it raises some serious questions about courage, honor, and how to get your next meal.

Isn't running away a shameful thing to do? If someone is hurting, abusing, or threatening you, you have every right to run away and hide. You can worry about shame after you've gotten yourself to safety.

What if running away is against my code of honor? There's a flaw in your code of honor. Making peace with ourselves over something we've done is how we teach ourselves not to do dishonorable things in the future. If we need time away in order to make that kind of peace, then we should take that time.

Where do I live and how do I support myself ? Buy, borrow, or beg a copy of The Teenage Liberation Handbook by Grace Llewellyn. It's a great youth survival guide. Or, visit your friendly neighborhood or online Anarchist bookstore for more age-appropriate books.

What if running away hurts the person I'm running away from or places them in danger? You run. And you make a promise to yourself to try harder not to hurt someone next time.

What if running away hurts an innocent bystander or places an innocent bystander in danger? Well, do they want to go with you? Is it safe to ask them? Take a look at the film The Great Escape.

Is there a practice mode? When I was little, I used to run away and hide for periods of ten minutes or so. I doubt my mother ever knew I was doing anything other than playing. Pretend you're hiding away and getting stronger. Does that make you feel better? If so, you can start planning ways to make that happen.

Do I have to leave everyone I love? No. I've hidden out in the open, pretending to be like everyone else. I still do that when I'm feeling fragile. See #27, Give 'em the old razzle-dazzle, and #66, Go stealth.xxxxxxxxxxRun a Diagnostic Program zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz safety real life zzz I was once the first mate on a 364-foot motor yacht, which meant it was my job to make sure that the ship would float. A ship, like a person, is in constant motion. The ocean, like the world around us, is in constant motion. And water and salt like to erode pretty much everything they touch.

I used maintenance and diagnostic programs to make sure everything worked and would keep on working. How about developing maintenance and diagnostic programs for the most precious equipment you've got: your mind, body, and spirit? Repairing your life is a lot easier once you've spotted what it is that's broken.

DID SOMETHING TRIGGER YOU? Hungry, angry, lonely, and tired are all feelings that trigger my addictions. Do you have any triggers? Uncock them. Make a list of things that provoke you most and carry it around with you for a while.When you're feeling bad, check the list.

CAN'T STOP YOUR BRAIN? Is everything think, think, think? Balance your mind, spirit, and body. See #2, Take a deep breath andtouch yourself.

WHAT'S GOING ON IN YOUR PSYCHIC SPACE? Does your aura need cleansing? Are you under the influence of any jinxes, curses, or prophecies? See #38, Cast a spell. This is a good time to ask for help from spirit guides, angels, familiars, fairies, ghosts, imaginary friends, or God, if you are on speaking terms.

WHAT STATE ARE YOUR HORMONES IN? Puberty, menopause, pregnancy, nursing, and menstrual cycles can affect how you feel, and you can do something to feel better. If you're on any kind of
steroids, birth control pills or hormones, and you're having any kind of mood swings, inexplicable weight gain or loss, or changes in body temperature, it'd be worth doing a decent Web search
and/or going to see an endocrinologist. Even if you're a guy by birth, this totally applies to you.

CHECK YOUR DOSAGE: If you've slid off any meds, try your best to get back on them to see if that helps. If you think your meds aren't working well or they're causing unwanted side effects, go see the doctor who prescribed them, and if that doesn't help, go see another doctor for a second opinion.

ARE YOU HEARING VOICES? If you are hearing voices and they're telling you to do things that are harmful, go see a psychiatrist. Really. You do not have to obey people or voices that tell you
to do bad things. See #6, Just say no.

GET ANOTHER OPINION: Are you unsure of how you're feeling or what to do? Check in with friends who know you well and who treat you kindly and fairly. Or speak up in a twelve-step meeting or to a therapist. This isn't about someone else's ideas being more important than your own. This is just about getting another opinion. See #13, Ask for help.

YOU'D TAKE A PUPPY OR KITTEN TO THE VET IF THEY WERE SICK, RIGHT? Same goes for you. Let me be the good, concerned auntie here. If you have any question about whether or not you should be going to an emergency room or a clinic for a checkup or a check-in, please err on the side of being overly cautious.

HOW ARE YOUR FINANCES? In much debt? Can't pay the bills? Need money to get the fuck out of town but can't seem to raise it? How are you going to pay for your sex change surgery and hormones? Do you have insurance? Have you paid your taxes? There's not much that can make me more scared faster than that litany once it starts in my head. There are ways to deal. See #14, Run away and hide, #13, Ask for help, and #33, Stop fucking around and get to work.xxxxxxxxxxFind Out What You Look Like zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Difficult zzz YG/ASS zzz self-esteem, body, relief zzz The standards of beauty in America's über-culture are purposefully set too high so that we will buy anything in our frantic scramble to become attractive. We are meant to feel crushed, inadequate, and less-than so that we'll buy more and more things in the vain hope of 'fixing' ourselves. To combat total self-deprecation, try looking at yourself square in the mirror and taking a fearless inventory of what you see.

This is a terrifying alternative to killing yourself, but it is totally kick-ass effective, and it isn't dangerous in the least.

Find something attractive about each part of your body for which you've now got negative feelings. Then, focus on those positive feelings. Be as specific as you can about how each part of your body makes you feel, so that you'll know what to feel better than. And be as brutally honest about what you like. Keep in mind how other people have complimented you. Can you at least agree with them? In better understanding your body, you can better appreciate it on its own terms. You can begin to experience and view your body in a healthier, kinder way.

ADVANCED MODE: Do this exercise with a friend you really trust, and help each other feel better about your bodies.xxxxxxxxxxMake a Deal with the Devil zzz 2 zzz 2 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz mind game, comfort zzz I've dealt with the devil. Many people have. Sometimes we want something so badly that we're willing to compromise hard-learned principles of decency, goodwill, and compassion in order to get it. We borrow power that isn't really ours against our better judgment and the general good of humanity. Usually, what we want is something we consider bad, wrong, or sinful, so even when we get what we ask for, we can't enjoy it much. And then payback time forces us to feed power back to that devilish person or institution. It's true what they say: you'll feel like you've sold your soul.

That said, if it comes down to dealing with the devil or taking your own life, deal with the devil. You can try to outsmart the devil-steal from the bad guys and try not to get caught, that sort of thing. You might get away with it. But the only way I've found to escape with my soul intact is to frame my deal in such a way that I don't profit from it.xxxxxxxxxxMake 'em Laugh zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz safety, delight, mischief zzz Making people laugh is an excellent way to deflect violence and insults, and reclaim our own voices. It's smoke and mirrors. It gives you the control to focus audience attention where you want it and explore the parts of your suffering that you find humor in. Like my little bald head here. It has tons of possibilities for comedy. If you don't know any funny things about yourself, see #90, Believe in your own laughter.

POLITICAL MODE: Join or support the Guerilla Girls, the Radical Cheerleaders, the Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence, the Bread and Puppet Theater, and anyone else who's using the comedy of their own lives to undermine America's oppressive über-culture and to restore laughter to our politics and spiritual paths.

ADVANCED MODE: Laugh all the way to the bank. See #34, Sing for your supper. This alternative to killing yourself is dedicated with love, awe, and respect to Prof. John Emigh, a smart and funny guy indeed.xxxxxxxxxxMake Art Out of It zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz real life, spirit, mischief zzz Artistic genius is usually not the product of a life easily lived. The good news about suicidal longing is that it's got the potential to fuel great art. The better news is that whatever has got you thinking about killing yourself will lose its power when you use it to make art instead. The best news is that you don't have to be an artist for this alternative to work. Everyone, I repeat, everyone, can make art that speaks to someone.

Use any art form that's handy. Write it down, film it, sculpt it, paint it, or set it down in code. You don't have to pay attention to who may or may not look at it. Make art because it's better than being mean and/or hurting anyone, including yourself.

ADVANCED MODE: Some amazing art has been made in service to different communities, causes, or institutions. See #58, Serve somebody, and make some art in service to someone else.

OPTIONAL NEXT STEP: See #20, Sell the stuff you make, and #34, Sing for your supper.xxxxxxxxxxSell the Stuff You Make zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz empowering, real life zzz Stuff tends to sell when it's made from a completely different perspective than most people are used to. Art and craft have value because they can make people think and feel things that they aren't used to thinking or feeling. The truer you are to yourself while you are making your stuff, the more success you'll find in selling it.

Somewhere out there, there's an audience or customer or client or buyer who will pay you for the stuff you make. You can do it. It's tricky, but it is not impossible. There's a network out in the world made up of artists, craftspeople, designers, pornographers, zinesters, adult entertainers, filmmakers, sex workers, Star Trek authors, producers, publishers, performers, dealers, sculptors, strippers, writers of horror stories, and someone who's already making the sort of art or craft you'd like to be making for a living. People who make stuff tend to overlap and know each other, and we don't tend to be overly competitive. It's been my experience that outlaws are fairly generous in sharing leads and contacts for agents, galleries, producers, presenters, promoters, editors, ghosters, johns, directors, and so on.

The outlaw market doesn't work like the stock exchange, or the mall. To make things run smoothly, you buy stuff directly from the maker and pay cash when you can. You pay fair prices and try not to haggle with artists or hookers. You buy union made. You always tip as big as you can, including street performers. You subscribe to an odd little theater, circus, or orchestra. You eat in your local lesbo veggie restaurant. And as much as you may love Amazon.com, you buy what you can from socialist, anarchist, feminist and independent bookstores. You shop craft fairs, thrift shops, and flea markets. You read locally written porn and erotica. You boycott Wal-Mart. And you do that enough, and gradually, your own work becomes easier and easier to sell for better and better prices. That's how it seems to work.xxxxxxxxxxDeal with the Dead and Gone zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Difficult zzz YG/ASS zzz comfort zzz You have every right to deal with the dead and gone any way you want to. When you don't deal with them, they tend to hang around and, for better or for worse, continue to influence your life.

My mother's death left me grieving the hardest. I'd relied so heavily on the near unconditional love we had for each other that her absence made my life extremely difficult to navigate. Without her, I felt alone, abandoned, and unable to continue. In order to come to some peace with my loss, I listed the qualities about my mom that I most admired and relied upon. Then one by one, I embodied those qualities. This helped me to move on. But it's not always our great loves that die and go. Sometimes, it's the people who made us most afraid. In that case, it would be good to make a list of all the qualities about them we don't admire or rely on, and one by one make sure we're not embodying these things ourselves. Here are some ways you can connect with the dead and gone and come to some final terms with them:

Get drunk or stoned in their honor and let them walk (not drive) you home.
Get therapy.
Talk with them.
Say a prayer for their well-being.
Make art out of their lives.
Light a candle or an everlasting light.
Dance and/or spit on their grave.
Play their favorite music.
Put together a photo collage or album.
Wear bright red to the funeral.
Locate them in their next incarnation.xxxxxxxxxxMoisturize! zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Easy zzz G zzz comfort, delight, body zzz Just do it. I am so not kidding about this one. Femmes, fags, and girly girls know what I'm talking about. Queer Eye for the Straight Guy made it okay for boys, men, and butches to moisturize. If you ask nicely, maybe a girly girl or girly boy will show you how to do it.

GREAT CHEAP AND NATURAL MOISTURIZER
2 tablespoons of Aloe Vera gel
3 ounces of olive oil*
1 ounce of cocoa butter
2 ounces of rose water
*For normal skin, use almond or jojoba oil; for dry skin, use sesame oil or lanolin; for oily to blemished skin, use jojoba oil; for mature skin, use rice bran oil or ghee.
To prepare, warm the oil and butter together and the rose water and aloe vera separately. Place all of the ingredients in a blender and whip. If you wish, add scented oils for nice smells. See
www.ayurveda.com. 

ADVANCED MODE: Moisturize with playmates.xxxxxxxxxxSee Yourself in Everyone You Meet zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Easy zzz G zzz delight, rehearsal zzz Will Rogers was an American cowboy humorist, the Garrison Keillor, Jon Stewart, and Ellen Degeneres of his day, all rolled into one sweet, funny guy. He's best remembered for having said, 'I never met a man I didn't like.' (People talked like that back then. My guess is he probably liked all the women he met, too.) The point is that Will Rogers met a lot of people from all over the world and all walks of life. He met presidents and senators and beauty queens, and he met cowboys and ranch hands and field-workers and freed slaves. And he still said, 'I never met a man I didn't like.'

By all reports, he was a genuinely nice guy, and he really meant it. Dang! How did he do that? Didn't he ever meet someone who was simply a jerk? Wasn't Will ever in a bad mood? I've been chewing on this one ever since I was a teenager, and I think I figured out how he did it. He must have been a good listener. Good enough to listen to someone so intently that he could always find something they both agreed on, something they had in common. And he must have asked some really good questions to get people to open up to him; he must have shown genuine interest in what they had to say.

The odds are skyrocket high that you've got something in common with anyone you meet, if you listen sincerely enough.

DEBUG MODE: What if you see yourself in someone else and you don't like what you see? Excellent, grasshopper! Use #51, Be your own evil twin, and #91, Believe in your own paradox.

CUT-TO-THE-CHASE MODE: There's a Native American saying that goes something like, 'Show me who you love, and I'll know who you are.' If you want to get to the heart of a person you're trying to get to know, find out who or what it is they love. Let someone know who or what you love, too.xxxxxxxxxxSave the Whales, the Children, or the World zzz 3 zzz 2 zzz Easy zzz G zzz comfort, purpose zzz Choose a charitable or social activist organization. It can be a soup kitchen or human rights group. It can be an animal rights or eco-activism group-any big cause you've always wanted to do something about, or that you never gave much thought to but could certainly get behind. Tell them you'd like to volunteer on a regular basis for one month or one year. At the end of that time, evaluate what you've done and how you feel. Did you feel supported? Were you getting enough of a good feeling from doing that work to make it worthwhile being there? Would you like to leave? Stay another year? You get to choose.

On the other hand, you could try saving one whale, one child, or one tiny little piece of the world. That kind of work is like falling in love or talking with God. If you spend your life that way, always allotting some time to helping out someone else, you shouldn't really need this book much longer.xxxxxxxxxxExperiment on Animals and Small Children zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz YG zzz delight, rehearsal, body zzz Do you feel awkward about how to deal with other people? Kids and animals respond so well to love and kindness that it's a complete joy to practice your people skills on them. Gizmo is one of the cats I live with. He's more feral than tame. I spend a lot of time learning his rhythms and his boundaries. He spends a lot more time in my lap now, and I pet him using the resilient edge of resistance (see #2, Take a deep breath and touch yourself ). If my attention wanders away from him, onto the computer screen or toward someone else in the room, my touch becomes less conscious, and he'll immediately jump down from my lap. He's a high maintenance diva is what he is. But whenever I get cranky, I practice being sweet to him, and it brightens my day. So, give it a try. If you've got no pets or children in your life, you could house-sit, pet-sit, or babysit for friends and family.

Here's a list of basic people skills. Experiment getting these concepts across to animals or children. Practice makes perfect.

Hello.
I'm not going to hurt you.
May I join you?
Thank you.
Where are your boundaries?
Here are my boundaries.
What pleases you?
This is what pleases me.
I enjoyed this time with you.
Good-bye.xxxxxxxxxxJoin a Group that Wants You as a Member or Start One of Your Own zzz 2 zzz 2 zzz Easy zzz G zzz comfort zzz We join groups for lots of reasons. Membership keeps us from getting lonely. Maybe a group facilitates some passion of ours. Or, supports us through crises, recovery from addiction, or illness. Some groups have a welcome wagon and an insurance plan. When you're a freak, a teen, or a recognizable outlaw, you need to search for a group that would have you as a member pretty much just the way you are.

WHAT IF THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT YOU THAT DISQUALIFIES YOU FROM JOINING A GROUP YOU'D REALLY LIKE TO BELONG TO? Sometimes we join a group because we are hiding who and what we really are while we're learning how to be the person we want to become. That's fine. We all need some time out of the spotlight, with some space to grow and learn. The balancing act is how to maintain your integrity and be worthy of the trust the group is giving you. See #66, Go stealth.xxxxxxxxxxGive 'em the Old Razzle Dazzle zzz 2 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz safety, magic, mischief zzz Witches and wizards call it glamour. It's not about what you're wearing. It's sweeping someone off their feet by being really attentive. It's sleight of hand, smoke and mirrors, and misdirection. Sometimes, it's a good thing to do when you're scared or uncertain.

You can use glamour as an alternative to living a life of unpopularity and/or loneliness. Razzle dazzle is as effective as you are good at it, and it's a lot easier than you think to get good at. But that's not necessarily good news. Once you're good at glamour, it can become more than a teeny bit addictive. You could start to believe your own mask in order to justify wearing it. You could get pretty smug about yourself, and that's no fun for anyone. Try to keep glamour and razzle dazzle as a tool you use in emergencies or for celebrations.

ADVANCED MODE: Add sexy. You know how you can turn your headlights on someone? Completely make them the center of every single bit of your attention, even without seeming to. It's a talent you can learn just like any other. What do you get from giving 'em a sexy razzle dazzle? Well, what would you like? You can add expectations into the mix by being clear and up-front about what you'd like in return for the razzle dazzle you'll be giving. Negotiating an evening like that can be great fun.

HAVE-A-NICER-DAY MODE: Spend a day strolling about, being nothing but perfectly dazzling. Daze and dizzy 'em. Do it solo, or even better, do it with a partner or partners. Call it performance art and charge admission.xxxxxxxxxxGive Yourself Permission zzz 3 zzz 3 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz empowering, real life, spirit zzz Accepting that it's you who must decide what's right and what's wrong for yourself is key to living a fulfilled life. Once you arrive at that conclusion, you don't need permission from anyone else to be or do whatever you want.

Sure, go ahead and get advice from people who've had more experience than you. It also helps to look for advice from people who have a different point of view and to study the rules, regulations, and consequences of doing whatever it is you think you need permission for. But ultimately, it's up to you.xxxxxxxxxxPlay a Game You Like to Play zzz 2 zzz 3 zzz Difficult zzz G zzz clean slate, delight zzz Real life isn't like gym class, or some corporate office. Every day you wake up, you get to choose the kind of game you'd like to play and you get to pick what level you'd like to play at. If you don't like a game that someone else wants you to play, you don't have to play it, no matter what anyone says.

SOME GAMES YOU NEVER HAVE TO PLAY: Corporate America: You don't need an MBA, you never have to dress for success, and you don't have to work for anyone who exploits their workers. Hail to the Chief: You don't have to support a despot just because he's holding the office of president of the United States. 

Monogamy: There's no reason you can't love a lot of people all at the same time.

Saints or Sinners: Sinners get thrown into Hell, and saints lead a really boring life. Totally not a game worth playing.

Don't Ever Tell Anyone What I Did to You: You never have to cover up for anything bad that someone else has done. If someone is asking you to do that, see #14, Run away and hide, and #35, Dance for your life.xxxxxxxxxxGet Out There and Be a Star zzz 1 zzz 1 zzz Difficult zzz YG-50 zzz thrill ride zzz Oh, go for it. At best, you'll be the star you always hoped you could be, and at worst, the journey you're going to take in order to get there will have made your life worth living and wouldn't that be a great feeling?

Every one of us gets to be a star in our own part of the sky. The trick to enjoying the pursuit of stardom is simply to brighten, warm and serve the universe around you. On good days I remember to believe that, and so can you. So, if going for stardom is going to fire up your lust for life, get out there and be a star in whatever sky welcomes you. See #58, Serve somebody.xxxxxxxxxxGet Out There and Be an Extra zzz 3 zzz 3 zzz Easy zzz G zzz delight, real life, comfort zzz Wouldn't it be fun to be one of the background cops or whores on TV's Law and Order? Well, move to New York and audition.

Sometimes, it's a lot easier to let someone else be the star of the film.

Extras rarely get lines or credit. Sometimes all the audience ever sees is the back of their head. Or their face on a mug shot in the hand of some TV detective. But you get paid for that, which is a great big plus to being an extra. The trick to personal fulfillment as an extra is understanding that this is your work, that you're dedicating your life to it, and that, by gosh, you're making your living doing it. Life doesn't get much better than that.xxxxxxxxxxGet Out There and Be an Ex zzz 4 zzz 3 zzz Easy zzz G zzz empowering, purpose zzz What do ex-convicts, transsexuals, ex-nuns, ex-smokers, recovering alcoholics, ex-gamblers, ex-sex addicts, ex-sex offenders, ex-sex workers, and ex-gays have in common with everyone who ever once was but is no longer extremely rich, poor, fat, ugly, beautiful, working class, or ruling class? These are all people who are better known for what they used to be than for what they currently are. That hurts, and I'm sorry if that's happening to you. It seems to be the plight of the postmodern identity that modernist thinkers won't let us freely identity shift. Modernist and fundamentalist logic runs like this: if you once were one of those, then you still are, and you've probably got all those same qualities now. Being an ex is about leaving an old identity behind you, and learning how to manage the stigma of what you once were at the same time. It helps to have someone to talk with who knows what's going on. See #47, Find a friend.

If you're having trouble dealing with someone who refuses to see you as you are today and that situation isn't changing, then see #37, Keep moving on, or if you're feeling more cranky or mischievous, try #52, Be a more frightening monster than the one they think you are. When you embrace being an ex, you can keep or keep available whatever you enjoyed about your past identity. See #7, Trash your preference files and reboot.

MERIT BADGE! Write an essay, poem, song or rant, or make a film, painting or sculpture that responds to the following two questions and you'll be qualified to copy and use this hand designed-by-me Ex and Proud Merit Badge. Heck, you can even earn the right to wear this beauty by meditating on these questions for ten minutes every morning for one week.

1. What do the identities listed at the top of this section have in common?
2. What do you have in common with each one?

ADVANCED MODE: You can use your ex status to get yourself some fame or notoriety, or you can make art out of it. See #30, Get out there and be a star! and #19, Make art out of it.xxxxxxxxxxStop Fucking Around and Get to Work zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Difficult zzz G zzz real life, empowering zzz Does it suck being you? Is there nothing worthwhile to do? Does the world owe you a better life than the one you've got? If I said, 'Oh, poor you,' could you smile?

Say you had a friend, and every day this friend was feeling sorrier and sorrier for herself, so much so that it was hard to spend time with her. Wouldn't you want to tell her enough is enough? If hearing that makes you wince, maybe it's time to get off your butt. Get back to doing something, anything, any kind of work you can find for yourself. You can always keep looking for a more rewarding job. In the summer of 1968, I sorted bottle returns at a Pepsi plant, drove an ice cream truck, and became a scene designer/painter and a singer/dancer. It was a great summer. I didn't have time to get depressed.

PARTNER MODE: Find a good friend, family member, therapist, twelve-step program, congregation, or coven to help kick your butt back into the world.xxxxxxxxxxSing for Your Supper zzz 2 zzz 3 zzz Difficult zzz G zzz real life, spirit, purpose zzz Are you just too freaky for McDonald's, Disney, or Bank of America? Trust me, that's good news. And don't worry about making a living. You can cultivate what makes you freaky to make a much more fun living than what you might find flipping Double-meat burgers, or following some corporate dress code because you think it's your only choice.

Here are just some of the ways I've seen some pretty freaky people make a living without having to hide their freakiness. I've starred the ones I've done myself. This should jumpstart your inner breadwinner.

Accounting, bookkeeping, artists' model,* pelvic model, motion-capture model, astrologer, Tarot reader,* tech support rep,* blogger, zinester, journalist,* bookstore worker, librarian, museum worker, care giver, social worker, sitter,* companion, courtesan, personal assistant, carpenter, cabinetmaker, baker, musician, adult entertainer,* circus, freak show, or sideshow performer, corset maker, craft maker,* game designer, programmer, gardener, landscaper, entertainer,* erotic dancer, sex worker,* stage carpenter,* stage electrician, scene painter,* costumer, sound technician, light technician, stage manager, barista, food-service worker,*restaurant worker, nurse, veterinarian, phone sex operator,* professional dominatrix* or submissive, black-market operator, professional student, pool player, gambler, priest, priestess, nun, minister,* scientist, mathematician, physicist, engineer, boxer, wrestler, grant writer,* grant receiver,* trades and service industry,* U.S. postal worker, theatrical producer or presenter,* artists' agent, slam poet, street/park performer,* sales,* telemarketer,*knitter, tailor, fabric designer, sugar baby.

GROUP MODE: Join or put together a band, writers' group, dance team, theater company, bookstore collective, or socialist commune. AND there are foundations, trusts, grants, and even a few government-sponsored programs that you qualify for precisely because you're an outsider. Get your application in now!xxxxxxxxxxDance for Your Life zzz 1 zzz 1 zzz Difficult zzz G zzz safety zzz The ultimate bully threat is this: entertain me or die. In the Westerns I watched when I was growing up, there was always a scene with some bad guy shooting bullets at the feet of some hapless stranger. And the bad guy would always shout, 'Dance! Dance for your life!' Martin Scorsese recreated the moment in Goodfellas. The language is grittier. Joe Pesci shouts, 'Dance, ya muthah-fuckah! Dance!'

Despite romantic notions to the contrary, outlaws and outcasts mostly end up on the wrong side of the gun, both figuratively and literally. Sometimes we have to dance. Sometimes it's someone we love whose finger is on the trigger.

Several of the alternatives in this book will help you get through a bad time like this. You can use #2, Take a deep breath and touch yourself; #6, Just say no; #12, Send out a distress signal; and #14, Run away and hide. I am so sorry if that's the position you're in. If you possibly can, leave now and get to a shelter or even the police. But if you can't leave, keep on dancing for as long as it takes to get out of there and get to someone who can protect you and keep you safe.xxxxxxxxxxKill Every Last One of those Mother-Fuckers (Not Really.) zzz 4 zzz 2 zzz Easy zzz G zzz thrill ride,relief, mind game zzz Have you ever had a murderous thought about someone? I have. A lot of people have. I'm sorry, but the kind of world we've all grown up in makes it easy to have those thoughts. So, get over the notion that having them makes you an unusual or bad person. The urge to kill is completely natural. Like any other natural urge, what matters is learning all the constructive things you can do with that urge once it surfaces. Eventually, the urge to kill can channel your energy into a great number of constructive directions. It can fuel your politics, your art, and your sense of justice.

The challenge becomes how can you fully experience and satisfy your urge to kill 'em all without actually killing anyone or anything. The easiest thing to do is pretend you're killing 'em all. Indulge in the revenge fantasies of movies, books, cartoons, and video games.

And when you're ready to come back to the real world, where you know that murder just doesn't cut it, you can decompress the way I did while I was writing this book. I pulled up the San Diego Zoo panda-cam, and I watched Bai Yun in the birthing den with her new cub. Calmed me right down every time.

EROTIC MODE: Hentai is the porn version of manga and anime. If you enjoy playing with violent sex consensually with others, you might want to check it out. Hentai can also be really tender and sweet.xxxxxxxxxxKeep Moving On zzz 1 zzz 3 zzz Difficult zzz G zzz clean slate zzz Everything comes to an end. What no one ever tells you is what to do after that. This is what you do: you move on and you keep moving on. It's not as bad as it sounds.

There's an old saying in show business: all shows close.

Moving on is the other side of the mountain from death and dying. It's about what you do after the dying and after the death. It's wherever life takes you after the end of something that was beautiful and important or ugly and painful in your life. Moving on is what you do after a relationship is over, whether it was a relationship with someone, something, or someplace. Moving on is about continuing your life without that physical presence.

You choose to move on when you stop falling back into an identity that no longer works for you. It's a way you can start all over again and put all the painful or joyful good-byes in context with the hellos that always follow. How can you tell when something is over? I'm still learning that one, but usually I get the message when I feel stuck or when I'm in too much pain, and good-bye is one of the very few options left. Sure, moving on can leave you bone lonely, but most of that loneliness happens when you're lost in memories. Part of moving on successfully is learning what to leave behind. See #21, Deal with the dead and gone, and #100, Tidy your campsite before you leave.

Make a list of the last three people, places, or things that you lost or left behind. Which parts of you haven't moved on from those losses? See #9, Make longer-range plans, and figure out how best to move on from those losses.xxxxxxxxxxCast a Spell zzz 2 zzz 3 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz magic, safety zzz Are you good at making things happen across the room or across time? Do you travel inter-dimensionally or would you like to? Do you have your own version of spider sense or women's intuition? Are you a medium or a teller of fortunes? Are you worried that someone is going to dump pig's blood on you at the prom?

You are not alone, and you are not freaky or crazy for any supernatural abilities you seem to have. There's a whole world of people who practice all kinds of magic. There are books, audio and video tapes, and DVDs on how to do it. There are conventions of people who practice real live cast-a-spell magic. Some of them, but not many, worship Satan. Even so, almost all of these people are very nice to hang out with and learn magic from. Part of the fun is looking for these people in your life. So, go learn some magic and have fun casting spells. Don't poke your eye out with your wand.

SEX MAGIC MODE: Throw in an orgasm to fuel your magic. It's fun and easy! Read Urban Tantra: Sacred Sex for the 21st Century by my partner in love, art, and magic, Barbara Carrellas.xxxxxxxxxxMake a Wish zzz 2 zzz 3 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz spirit, magic, purpose zzz When you wish upon a star, your dreams come true. Did you ever believe that? What made you stop believing? When was the last time you made a wish on a wishbone, a dandelion, or a birthday candle? If making wishes makes you feel better, make more wishes. I mean, duh!

Think of something you'd like. Anything at all. Now, savor the idea of already having it. How does that make you feel? For the rest of the day, do things that make you feel just like that.

What you're doing is putting yourself in a receptive mode so that your wish might come true. You're aligning yourself with the naturally positive energy of the universe that wants you to be happy.xxxxxxxxxxMake Believe zzz 4 zzz 3 zzz Easy zzz G zzz comfort, purpose, rehearsal zzz When you make believe, you're giving yourself clues to a useful future identity.

Beyond the age of eight or nine, very few people take make- believe seriously. Pretending is a skill we spend years perfecting, and yet we're never supposed to use that skill for any real purpose. You, however, can take this skill very seriously and use it to make yourself feel better.

Making believe isn't exactly lying, and it's not a way to 'fake it 'til you make it,' because when you make believe, it's as real as you can imagine it to be. And making believe isn't delusional, it's completely conscious. How many real-life uses can you come up with for your skill in making believe?

EXERCISE: Make believe you're somehow better than you are right now. Or, make believe you're the kind of you that you've always wanted to be. Use costumes, props, and as many details as you might need to help you make believe that you are that better you. Keep on making believe for as long as you can. Then write down the differences between the make-believe you and the everyday you. Use #7, Trash your preference files and reboot, or #38, Cast a spell, to get rid of the parts of you that make you feel bad, and nurture the parts of you that make you feel better about yourself.

WOO-WOO MODE: #49, Find a God who believes in you.xxxxxxxxxxMake a Dream Come True for Someone Else zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Easy zzz G zzz delight, purpose zzz It's been said that the dining rooms in Heaven and Hell are exactly the same. Diners sit across from each other at long tables heaped with delicious food. The only utensils are three-foot-long chopsticks. In Hell, the damned starve as they try in vain to feed themselves with the chopsticks that can't reach their mouths. In Heaven, folks generously feed one another across the table. Making someone else's dreams come true makes you feel great. It doesn't have to be their dream of a lifetime. Leave that to reality TV. Just go make someone's little dream come true with no strings attached.xxxxxxxxxxAct You Age or Any Other zzz 3 zzz 3 zzz Easy zzz YG/ASS zzz real life, empowering, mischief zzz Age-based discrimination is a given. But here's a way you can get around it. No matter how old you are, you can embody an archetype of any age and live at the age that works best for you at any given moment. Most cultures have established archetypes for what they determine to be the four primary ages of life. These are represented in the Tarot as King (elder), Queen (adult), Knight (adolescent), and Page (child). And while those are nice enough categories, they're too broadly drawn to be of much practical use.

As an outsider in a postmodern age, you're free to try out many nuanced identities within, and beyond, each of those four age ranges. You can take on and put off ages as they suit you, using different age models to handle different situations in your life. You can shift identities in order to stay under the radar of someone who isn't hip to what you're doing.xxxxxxxxxxAct Your Gender or Any Other zzz 2 zzz 3 zzz Tricky zzz YG-50 zzz comfort, delight. empowering zzz More and more people are embracing multiple genders in order to accomplish things in different parts of their lives. Sometimes, we need boy energy. Sometimes, only girly-girl energy will do. You get to do what you most enjoy doing, no matter what your body looks like, or what gender you were assigned at birth. When did you learn otherwise?

Growing up in our culture, we learn to narrow down our gender presentation to the same one every day. If you were raised in another culture, your gendered behavior would look very different from the way you're doing your gender right now. It would follow that we have the ability to be lots of genders. But there's never been a practical guideline for shifting between them.

Why play with gender? If gender is an identity that signals our desire and our position in some power hierarchy, then it should be possible to explore the nature of our desire and power more completely by taking on a gender identity more compatible with our fantasies. Wouldn't that be a good reason to stay alive?

Now, get yourself to a nice, safe, comfortable place where you can be by yourself with as little chance of being interrupted as possible. Think of something that turns you on sexually. Just close your eyes and imagine doing it or having it done to you. What does it make you feel like? Write down some words. Take your time and be thorough in your imagination.

Once you've got a sexual fantasy in mind, you know the components of a gender identity that most closely matches the gender in which you experience your sexual fantasy. And being the clever thing that you are, you can now consciously adjust yourself along several binaries in order to give yourself pleasure. It's that easy. That's how sexual fantasies can lead to personal enlightenment and freedom-even your grossest, most scary, don't-wanna-go-there sexual fantasies.

REMEMBER: You don't ever have to act out on your own fantasies, or anyone else's. Ever. It's always your choice.

POWER MODE: Explore the nature of your power. What points within the binaries make you feel powerful? How could you become the kind of identity who more routinely feels powerful?xxxxxxxxxxUse the Wrong Tool for the Job zzz 2 zzz 2 zzz Tricky zzz YG/ASS zzz real-life, mischief zzz The master's tools will never dismantle the master's house. -Audre Lorde

So what tools could you use? The wrong ones! You can get really good at using the
wrong tools to get the job done.

Most outsiders and outcasts have been on the receiving end of a bully's anger, so we are nearly always at first loathe to use a bully's methods. But after a while and usually under a great deal of pressure, some of us embrace those tools and turn them on our oppressors. I know a lot of people swear by that, but I'm trying my best not to use the following tools:

Force
Power over
Shame
Fear
Hate
Black-and-white thinking
The notion that the end
justifies the means
Intimidation
An eye-for-an-eye
Threats
Humiliation
Blame
Name-calling
Segregation
Capitalism
Divide and conquer
Theft
Greed

When you don't use the master's tools, other tools become available to you. These aren't startling new tools. Most of them have been in use for aeons. They're the tools the bullies have tossed aside as forbidden or unworkable because they're too scared to use them.

Magic
Love
Anarchy
Sex
Joy
Patience
Fairness
Consensus
Illogic
Compromise
Culture jamming
Compassion
Humor
Comedy
Paradox
Nonviolence
Seduction
Riddles
Art
Visualization
Affirmations

EXERCISE: Add more items to both lists of tools.

PRACTICE MODE: Do something nice for the wrong reason.

ARTSY MODE: Make art from the wrong materials.

WOO-WOO MODE: Worship God the wrong way.

MATH MODE: Solve a problem using the wrong formula.

SEX MODE: Find a fun sex toy at your local bakery.

ALTERNATE SEX MODE: Find a fun sex toy at the hardware store.

HEAVY METAL SEX MODE: Find a fun sex toy in a medical catalog.

TRANNY MODE: Do it the way you did it before you transitioned.

GANDHI MODE: Get together with, or help put together, a group of people who agree on which part of the master's house needs to be dismantled. Reach consensus on how to dismantle it without using any of the master's tools.xxxxxxxxxxCome Out, Come Out, Whatever You Are zzz 1 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz YG/ASS zzz empowering, delight, purpose zzz It's always worth the risk to come out of whatever closet we've been keeping ourselves in. But each of us is entitled to make the decision about just how and when to do it.

We keep secrets about ourselves when we're afraid that if someone knew, they would stop loving us and/or start hurting us. While it's true that some people are going to say good-bye, there will be people who are going to say hello, just because you're being a you that you've always wanted to be. And you've seen enough television and movies, and read enough books or graphic novels to know that it takes a lot of work to keep a secret about your identity from those who love you. Keeping a secret, staying in some closet, never expressing some loving part of ourselves can drain our energy to the point of exhaustion. And then there's all the paranoia about someone finding out. It makes you jumpy. So, come on out. You don't have to come out to everyone all at once. Start by coming out to someone that other people have safely come out to.

And remember, just because you come out as something, that doesn't mean you have to always keep on being that. You can always come out as something else later.xxxxxxxxxxFind the Love of Your Life zzz 1 zzz 1 zzz Difficult zzz G zzz thrill ride, body, delight zzz I swear, there's someone out there for you to love. He, she, or they are out there someplace looking for you. But no one is going to love you exactly the way you are until you love you exactly the way you are. So, how do you love yourself? Louise Hay says it would be very brave of you if you were to say, 'I love you just the way you are' in the mirror three times a day. For more affirmations, see her book You Can Heal Your Life.

ZEN MODE: Become the kind of person you want to fall in love with. Make a list of what's important in a lover, and work on being that yourself. See Be the Person You Want To Find by Cheri Huber.xxxxxxxxxxFind a Friend zzz 3 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz real life, comfort, safety zzz You can do it. Finding a friend is like finding anything else. You just keep looking until someone shows up in your life who's genuinely glad to see you. Then, you take a deep breath, open up, and let someone in at whatever level of friendship makes you both comfortable.

One of the most difficult things about being a recognizable freak or outsider is the loneliness. It's harder to make friends. One of the best things about being a recognizable freak or outsider is that your best friends don't mind, and usually even appreciate, a lot of the weird stuff about you.

No matter who you are or what you do, there are people who would like to spend time with you. Whenever you're feeling lonely, just take a moment to consider how many different friends are really possible in your life. A friend can be a political ally, a classmate, a mentor, or a lover. You can make friends at the library, a potluck, at Good Vibrations or a Toys In Babeland store, or in a twelve-step meeting. Just go do what interests you, and before long you'll be doing that with other people who have the same interests.

PRACTICE MODE: Practice friendship with pets, imaginary friends, dolls, action figures, stuffed animals, and video games. And you do have a friend in Jesus, as well as in Mohammed, Moses, Buddha, Joseph Smith, Mary Baker Eddy, L. Ron Hubbard, and any other spiritual guide, angel, or demon who listens and/or speaks to you.

ADVANCED MODE: Try to structure your life so it includes friends from a wide range of your life's experiences, and from a wide diversity of identities.xxxxxxxxxxFind Your Tribe zzz 3 zzz 3 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz comfort, relief, safety zzz You can do it. Finding a friend is like finding anything else. You just keep looking until someone shows up in your life who's genuinely glad to see you. Then, you take a deep breath, open up, and let someone in at whatever level of friendship makes you both comfortable.

One of the most difficult things about being a recognizable freak or outsider is the loneliness. It's harder to make friends. One of the best things about being a recognizable freak or outsider is that your best friends don't mind, and usually even appreciate, a lot of the weird stuff about you.

No matter who you are or what you do, there are people who would like to spend time with you. Whenever you're feeling lonely, just take a moment to consider how many different friends are really possible in your life. A friend can be a political ally, a classmate, a mentor, or a lover. You can make friends at the library, a potluck, at Good Vibrations or a Toys In Babeland store, or in a twelve-step meeting. Just go do what interests you, and before long you'll be doing that with other people who have the same interests.

PRACTICE MODE: Practice friendship with pets, imaginary friends, dolls, action figures, stuffed animals, and video games. And you do have a friend in Jesus, as well as in Mohammed, Moses, Buddha, Joseph Smith, Mary Baker Eddy, L. Ron Hubbard, and any other spiritual guide, angel, or demon who listens and/or speaks to you.

ADVANCED MODE: Try to structure your life so it includes friends from a wide range of your life's experiences, and from a wide diversity of identities.xxxxxxxxxxFind a God who Believes in You zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz comfort, magic, spirit zzz Postmodern identities that require deities require postmodern deities. If you're thinking that life isn't worth living in part because God doesn't approve of something that you are or that you're doing, it's time you find yourself a God who likes people like you. Look around. There are perfectly lovely deities who watch over nature, science, and art. There are deities who will support you on pretty much any career path you choose to take. As a postmodern identity surfer, you'll find new Gods and Goddesses to bless each new identity you take on. Do be sure to say a respectful farewell to the Gods and Goddesses you leave behind. 

Here are some good questions to ask on your quest for a God who believes in you:

Is it possible that there are Gods and Goddesses out there besides the one you've been believing in?
Have you heard of any other Gods or Goddesses who give their followers a better deal at life than your God is giving you?
Does the culture you live and work in worship a deity or deities who look and act like you?
Have you heard of any other deities who do look and act like you? Have you looked hard?
âWho is your deity or deities, and what are they doing for you right now? In what currency and how much are you paying them for what they do?
If your world came down to intelligent design, what is the nature of your God's intelligence? Do you want to be intelligent like that?
Who exactly is the God who's being worshipped by the people who are giving you trouble? How does their God want to be worshipped, and what is their God doing for them, do you think, that makes Him worth their worship?

ZEN MODE: Believe in no single creator God, but that anything else is possible.

WICCAN MODE: Believe in Gods and Goddesses in nature, and in elves, faeries and other wee folk when they give you cause or comfort to believe in them.

BIOLOGICAL EVOLUTIONARY MODE: Use wild, wacky sex and gender positive nature as your deity. Read Evolution's Rainbow: Diversity, Gender and Sexuality in Nature and People by my smart friend and colleague, Joan Roughgarden.xxxxxxxxxxBe your own hero/ine zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Easy zzz G zzz delight, empowering, real life zzz No matter what genre or generation we're talking about, superhero/ines are always outsiders, mutants, and/or freaks. It is their particular superpower that substantiates their freakishness. Their ability to navigate the world in spite of their shocking difference is part of what makes them super.

When the universe took away your respectable identity membership card, it gave you amiraculous gift in exchange: the precise superpowers you need in order to rescue yourself from suffering and keep living in this world. And like all truly great hero/ines, your life's mission, should you choose to accept it, is to discover your own superpowers and then use them to help end suffering for everyone. Start looking for your superpowers right now. You'll find them very close to whatever it is that's keeping you on the outside of things.xxxxxxxxxxBe your own evil twin zzz 2 zzz 2 zzz Easy zzz G zzz safety, real life zzz If being good isn't helping you handle your life, then be bad. Your evil twin is the perfect identity to call on when you want to break a stupid rule for the first time. The best evil twins on television and in the movies are always braver, sexier, and lots more fun anyway. Cover your bases safetywise, lay down the don't-be-mean ground rule, and then let your evil twin run the show for a while.

ADVANCED MODE: Be you and your evil twin at the same time. See #91, Believe in your own paradox.xxxxxxxxxxBecome a more frightening monster than the one they think you are zzz 2 zzz 3 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz mischief, delight, magic zzz If people knew the real you, would they run screaming from the room? Well, whatever kind of monster they think you are, it's probably safe to say, you're really much more terrifying. Sometimes we like to look freaky. Sometimes we like to blend in. It's our choice. But shifting from one to another keeps people from figuring out who or what we are.

The cultural monster here at the turn of the century is the shape-shifter. Being an outsider isn't what makes us monstrous. We are monsters because we're so good at either revealing our monstrosity, or keeping it hidden when we want to.

It's when we become something the über-culture can't quite put its finger on that we know we're being a worse monster than the one they think we are. In this culture, that's a crime. You have to match your photo ID. So, go ahead. Be a chameleon. Enjoy yourself. Play safe, and try not to scare the little children.

EXTRA CREDIT: Write an essay, poem, recipe, film or performance piece on this question: if a culture's monsters reflect it's greatest fears, what does it say about über-American culture that its monsters are for the most part shape-shifters and mutants?xxxxxxxxxxBe cute or dashing zzz 3 zzz 2 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz delight, empowering, body zzz When you spend a lot of your time dodging arrows, it's good to have a friendly way to disarm the archers. Cute doesn't mean weak, subservient, or incapable of protecting oneself. To the contrary, cute is distinctively capable of inflicting serious damage. Porcupines are super cute, but you wouldn't want to fuck with one.

Cute and dashing are age-free, race-free, class-free and gender-free identities. You don't need any particular look to be cute or dashing-it's cross-cultural. You don't need to spend money on any particular accessories. Like most things, they work best if you don't force it. So, get on out there and be cute or dashing.

ADVANCED MODE: Be gracious or be gallant.xxxxxxxxxxBe afraid, be very afraid zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz empowering, clean slate, purpose zzz Use your fear like a compass. Each time I walk toward what's scaring me most-and keep on walking toward it-I end up walking right through that fear to some other side where I am no longer afraid. And every time that happens, there's another fear waiting for me on the other side. And I bitch and moan and then start walking toward this new fear, and it always gets scarier and scarier until finally I'm through to yet another side with yet another fear. It's like a video game. The levels get harder and harder, but you get better and better at playing.xxxxxxxxxxBe orgasmically celibate zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz delight, comfort, body zzz At some time, everyone needs, or just plain wants, some downtime from sex with other people. For some people, that downtime can last our entire lives. It doesn't mean we're damaged or that we've got a history of sexual abuse, although it could mean either.

Wanting a break from sex with other people doesn't mean you need to do without sex. Sexual energy is healing, comforting, strengthening energy, and sometimes we just need to stoke our own fires. That's a good and natural and even healthy thing to do. You are chock full of yummy sexual energy, and you don't have to share it with anyone.xxxxxxxxxxGet laid. Please. zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz delight, comfort, body zzz There is no legitimate moral, spiritual, or physical reason you shouldn't have some great sex if that's what you want. Keep in mind, however, that there may be legal implications depending on your age and the kind of sex you've got in mind. There are only three rules you need to follow for carefree, guilt-free safer sex of any kind: be consensual, don't be mean, and use safer sex guidelines.

When you follow these rules, you get to toss out any of your older rules about sex. You are chock full of yummy sexual energy, and you can share it safely, sanely, respectfully, and consensually whenever and with whomever you like. I draw the line at sex between children and adults. I don't see that one working at all.

Sex can be right this minute or next year some time. You get to decide. And you get to change your mind about that whenever you want to.
Sex can be a passionless quickie.
Sex can be any way you imagine it can be.
Sex doesn't have to be any way you don't want it to be.
Sex doesn't have to be with one person over a long period of time, or even with one person at a time.
Sex doesn't have to be with anyone but yourself. You get to control the guest list.
Sex doesn't have to happen with anyone of any particular race, religion, gender, age, class, education level or body type.
Sex doesn't have to be for free. You can buy, sell or trade sex for things if you need and want to do that.
Sex doesn't mean you're a slut or a whore, unless of course that's what you'd like to be.
Sex doesn't have to be genital, and you don't have to do it in private.
Sex doesn't have to end with an orgasm for everyone.
During sex, you can be any gender, age, race, class, animal, object, or alien life form that you'd like to be as long as you both or all agree that that's what you're safely and respectfully being together.
Sex doesn't have to be in the missionary position.
Sex doesn't have to happen on a bed in a bedroom in the dark.
Sex can be really yummy, sicko, gross, painful, scary, bloody, and/or degrading when you all or both agree to do it that way safely and respectfully together.
Sex can be hilariously funny.
Sex can be a lovely gift you give someone or someone gives you.
Sex can be a blessing, a prayer, and a generous act of healing.
Sex can involve costumes, props, and a script.
Sex can be as soon as you put down this book or while you're still
holding it.xxxxxxxxxxSay please and thank you zzz 2 zzz 3 zzz Easy zzz G zzz mischief, thrill ride, delight zzz Okay, so you're someone who doesn't fit in. That doesn't mean you have to be surly about it. The very best outlaws are the charming ones, anyway. So, be well mannered. Chicks and moms love it, and guys will want to do guy bonding with you. Thank you is a great and easy way to feel better. When anyone gives you a compliment, take a moment to hear it, enjoy it, and say thank you. Try it for a week. See if please and thank you make a difference in your outlaw life.

ADVANCED MODE: Become gracious and be a lady, or become gallant and be a gentleman. See #43, Act your gender or any other.

WAY ADVANCED MODE: Say, 'I'm sorry,' and ask people to apologize to you.xxxxxxxxxxServe somebody zzz 2 zzz 3 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz purpose, delight, rehearsal zzz When I run out of reasons to stay alive for my own sake, it always helps to donate a substantial part of my life to the service of somebody else.

All my life I've wanted to be useful. I've always wanted to help. I've wanted to make people smile or laugh. My two most intense periods of service have been my twelve years of willing and eager service to the Church of Scientology and my ten months of willing and eager sadomasochistic service to two phenomenal dykes.

I don't know which makes me look crazier in the eyes of the dominant culture. But I do know that the times of my life I've spent in service have been the happiest times of my life, and I don't regret a minute of it. Giving is a most humbling and rewarding experience, and is a wonderful reason to go on living.xxxxxxxxxxEroticize the pain zzz 1 zzz 2 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz comfort, delight zzz Sometimes, the only way to deal with pain is to transform it into erotic energy. What's erotic energy? You get to decide, but it's in the general area of yum.

Try doing this: Pinch your arm. While it's still hurting, mentally transform the pain into warmth. Just decide that what you're feeling is warmth and direct that warmth into your heart, where it feels good. Once you can regularly transform pain and direct it to your heart as warmth, start directing your transformed pain to other places in your body. You can direct warm, healing energy to any muscle, bone, or organ you've got. That's all there is to it. This alternative works best when you know and/or you're willing to test your limits.xxxxxxxxxxBake a cake zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz delight zzz Oh, go ahead. It's fun and easy! You can bake it from scratch or out of a box. You can do it solo or with a friend or family members. You give pieces to people or you could
even eat the whole darned thing yourself. The eat-it-all-yourself option works up to a point, and then it becomes something you wanna stop doing. See #61, Eat it all and
keep it down, which happens to be next.xxxxxxxxxxEat it all zzz 2 zzz 1 zzz Too Easy zzz G zzz comfort, if you must zzz Too much fat on your body can be hard on your heart, your back, and your knees. But sometimes this seems like the only alternative to being miserable. A lot of people go through eating binges. I always have. It's when we know what we're eating isn't good for us and that it's too much to be eating. Often, we even pass the point of enjoying what we're eating, and anxiety about that starts to creep in.

It's a stopgap. I wish I could easily stop overeating, but it usually takes me noticing that all my clothes are too tight and that I've put on ten pounds before I start swinging the other way. Try to overeat with friends so that you can slow each other down from time to time.

RECOMMENDED: Overeaters Anonymous didn't work for me. But I am a lifetime member of Weight Watchers, which has given me a realistic, balanced, and thoroughly fulfilling way to eat. Alternatives to eating that have worked for me are #58, Serve somebody; #15, Run a diagnostic program; and #16, Find out what you look like. As a last resort, there's always #81, Starve yourself.xxxxxxxxxxStay in bed zzz 4 zzz 3 zzz Easy zzz G zzz comfort zzz You know this works, so go ahead. Don't feel so guilty about it. There always have been, and always will be, days in your life when it's just better to stay in bed. The great news is you get better at giving in to the inevitable, and you stop feeling guilty.

I settle in with a bowl of cream of tomato soup and a box of Cheez-Its, and I watch an entire season of Buffy on DVD. Go, rest.

ARE YOU A LAZYBONES? You know what's a reasonable length of time for you to be completely zoned out, so set an alarm and when the alarm goes off, try #33, Stop fucking around and get to work.

ALREADY IN BED? If you're confined to bed, and reality is no place you want to be living in, you can go to Tahiti in your mind, or to any other place you'd like to visit. See #40, Make believe, and #91, Believe in your own paradox.xxxxxxxxxxTravel and have adventures zzz 1 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz empowering, spirit, thrill ride zzz Outlaws and outcasts tend to wander like the lost tribes of Israel, searching for a home some place where our bodies, hearts, and souls aren't in thrall to some heartless, soulless über-culture. I travel to evade the grasp of that über-culture and its bullies, and sometimes I travel just for the heck of it. It's how I stay amused by and interested in living an outlaw life.

FIRST-AID MODE: Take a sentimental journey to someplace where you feel better or remember great times.

ZEN MODE: Travel without a destination.

ALTERNATE ZEN MODE: Travel without moving.

WOO-WOO MODE: When a physical journey isn't possible, take a journey along some elemental path of emotions, body, mind, will, and/or spirit. Use Tarot cards to keep track of your travels. The four
suits represent the journeys we take through our emotions, the physical world, our mind's growth, and the state of our will. There are four face cards in each suit, usually drawn as kings, queens, knights, and pages. I use the four face cards to represent different ages: elders, adults, adolescents, and children. The Tarot also includes twenty-two major arcana cards, numbered zero to twenty-one, which represent a spiritual journey ranging from complete innocence to complete worldliness.

RECOMMENDED: What's the use of having a spiritual path if you can't customize it for your own spirit?! Eventually, your favorite pathways through your emotions, body, mind, will, and spirit will emerge, and you'll replace my words and ideas with your own. And I think that's how the world is supposed to get better and better for each of us having lived in it. xxxxxxxxxxGo on a quest zzz 1 zzz 4 zzz Difficult zzz G zzz empowering, spirit, purpose zzz A quest is your agreement to set out on a journey and to keep on going until you meet up with some great Ah-HAH! Go ahead. Nothing's stopping you. If you know what it is you're in search of, just walk out the door and start looking. The odds are good that anything that catches your attention will be some kind of clue. Or, if walking isn't an option, start Web surfing, or get someone to share their favorite books with you. Or, go chase a rabbit down some hole. If you were in this picture, who would you be?

When you've discovered something, come on back and tell the rest of us.

OPTIONAL PREPATORY STEP: #5, Finish your homework first.xxxxxxxxxxGo shopping zzz 1 zzz 1 zzz Easy zzz G zzz comfort zzz Going shopping to make yourself feel better doesn't always work, but it's worth a try. You don't have to buy anything; you could just look. But if you get the urge to buy something you can't afford or don't even need or want, take a moment to figure out how buying that and having that would make you feel. Then take another moment to figure out how to give yourself that same feeling without doing the buying. Sometimes that works for me. See #40, Make believe.xxxxxxxxxxGo stealth zzz 2 zzz 2 zzz Tricky zzz YG zzz safety, delight, comfort zzz Every outlaw, freak, or outsider dreams at one time or another of passing for normal, and not having to deal with the staring and the questions and the laughing and the harassment.

Moments of stealth are moments free from all that. After spending a lot of time looking over your shoulder to see if you're being followed, there's nothing like the wonder and relief of looking at the world through a 'normal' pair of eyes.

The trick to managing your personal integrity while going stealth is to work at being the same you, no matter what else you're being. Keep adjusting degrees of stealth in different parts of your life until you wind up with the most opportunities for having a whole lot of harmless fun. It takes time, but it works. See #98, Learn moderation in all things.

RECOMMENDED: T-Gina comics at www.t-gina.com. Artist Gina Kamentsky tackles issues of stealth vs. visible outlaw with delightful good humor and compassion.xxxxxxxxxxGo for it against all odds zzz 1 zzz 4 zzz Difficult zzz G zzz thrill ride, empowering, purpose zzz Going for it against all odds is one of the cooler things that humans seem to do naturally. It doesn't necessarily mean going for it right now, and it doesn't have to mean putting every bit of your energy into it until you have no more left. Going for it against all odds can simply mean moving forward or standing still with persistence, and understanding that every move you make in your life-no matter what it is-can always be a move in the direction of achieving your dream.

Take inspiration from your favorite mythical, supernatural, or fantastical characters who keep hurling themselves against impossible obstacles and emerging triumphant. Do a thorough Internet search to discover the strategies they use. Let what you find inspire you to use the same tactics to search for an identity you enjoy being that is persistent, brave, or foolish enough to tackle your greatest fears and reach for your greatest dreams.xxxxxxxxxxGo completely batty zzz 0 zzz 2 zzz Too Easy zzz ASS zzz safety, comfort, if you must zzz Madness is an unconscious coping mechanism we develop either to compensate for something we're lacking or to make up for something we've got too much of. Madness runs the gamut from sweet, happy, peaceful la-la land to far beyond the scariest thing we can think of. All it takes is one more step or one more plug into your already overloaded sockets.

When life is seriously overwhelming, it's okay to check out if that's what's going to keep you alive. Sometimes diving into our deepest madness is the only reason or way to stay alive. If that's the case, try to find yourself a doctor, healer, or loving community of friends who will help you descend into your madness and return in one piece.

But wait! Before you dive into whatever frightening pit of demons and grasping devils awaits you, try consciously checking out first. It can help with the pain, whether it's physical or emotional. When I'm in pain, I have a place I try to visualize. It's a little island off the coast of Maine in the northeast United States. It's not much of an island; you can see from one end of it to the other. But there's a dock where seals come to play. There are a few trees where some friendly raccoons live. And all the animals I've ever lived with are there. And by the time I visualize all of that, the pain is pretty much gone-or I'm gone from it. It's a form of conscious madness called visualization.

WHAT IF YOU'VE REALLY GOT IT ALL TOGETHER? Maybe there's a version of someone else's madness that would make your life better to live. Try to choose a madness that makes you feel better and that best lines up with your life's dream.xxxxxxxxxxGo on a serial suicide spree zzz 2 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz YG zzz spirit, clean slate, empowering zzz Laugh at your own funeral, dance on your own grave, and then skip off to live a whole new life. Don't kill yourself ! Kill off the part of you that badly needs to die.

Of course you are simply you, but you are also many versions of you that you create to deal with the world: You are the you that you are with your friends. You are the you that you are with a bully. You are the you that you are with your parents, your boss and your lover(s).

Some of the you's that you've created are like Frankenstein's monster. You tried, but you goofed. Other you's might be really creepy. They embody selfish, mean, or self-destructive parts of you, rather than the loving parts of who you are. Maybe you're feeling ashamed or guilty about that particular you. Well, kill that you off ! It's as easy as one-two-three!

ONE: Make a list of the qualities that describe who that unwanted part of you is, what that part of you does, and the values that part of you hangs on to. Give that part of you a name.

TWO: Figure out the sweetest way it could die.

THREE: Kill it the way it's always wanted to die.

DEBUG MODE: Having trouble finding different parts of yourself? Use #42, Act your age or any other, and #43, Act your gender or any other.xxxxxxxxxxGet a makeover zzz 2 zzz 3 zzz Tricky zzz YG zzz delight, clean slate, comfort zzz People have been marking and changing their bodies for thousands of years and for almost as many reasons. It's no big deal. Still, when you cross the line into what the culture considers body modifications inappropriate to who and what they expect you to be, you brand yourself an outsider.

Regardless, there are good reasons to mark or change your body, both temporarily and permanently. Aside from reasons of health or strength, I've changed or marked my body for all of the following:

To remember
To remind
To honor
To welcome
To amuse
To sanctify
To show respect
To blend in better
To proclaim
To mark as property
To reveal
To beautify
To encourage
To attract
To repel
To inspire
To belong
To enjoy
To shock
For the sex
For the pain

If you're changing your body more radically than trimming your hair or toning up your muscles, here are some questions you're going to want to have good answers for:

Why do you want to change or mark yourself ?

How permanent would you like the mark or change to be?

From what emotional space are you making your decision to mark or change your body?

How much pain are you willing to endure?

How will your body modification affect your ability to navigate different cultures?xxxxxxxxxxGeek out zzz 3 zzz 3 zzz Difficult zzz G zzz real life, empowering, comfort zzz Are you obsessed with computers, science, comic books, gaming, spaceships, weird science, or revolution? Are you more comfortable with a keyboard than you are with face-to-face conversation? Do you speak Klingon better than you do English? Great! With that point of view, you're going to discover new ways to create art, to play a better game, and to subvert the dominant paradigm, or just plain make yourself feel better geeking out, and that's the whole geeking point, isn't it?xxxxxxxxxxGive up nouns for a day zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz Difficult zzz mind game, spirit, delight zzz Nothing remains in the same state or place. That's not a chair you're sitting on, it's chairing. Right now, that collection of molecules in motion is continuously forming itself into a chair, over and over again. After a while, some of those molecules get tired of being part of a chair, and they drop off to become something else. That's called decay. Recovering addicts and alcoholics get this when they say, 'this too shall pass.' Spend a day without using any nouns and write down your observations.xxxxxxxxxxMake a name for yourself in the world zzz 2 zzz 3 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz safety, empowering, thrill ride zzz You don't have to use or put up with a name for yourself that doesn't make you feel good. You get to name yourself. If a name works for you someplace in the world but not in other places, you get to use multiple names. Outlaws have been doing that for a long time. Like cats, we change the names we respond to. We change names to shift who we are, or to signal the nature of our desire, or to signal how we want to exercise power within a given sphere.

Whatever it is you call yourself, it had better be as flexible as you'd like yourself to be.

EXERCISE: Make a list of all the names you go by and all the names that other people call you. Use #38, Cast a spell, to cast out the names you no longer want to use and another spell to protect the names you want to be known by. Keep one name for yourself only.xxxxxxxxxxFrame your own debate zzz 3 zzz 3 zzz Difficult zzz G zzz purpose, mischief, mind games zzz Is someone calling you fag, dyke, fatso, nigger, queer, whore, spick, geek, chink, nerd, beaner, kike, or freak? Any combination of these?

These words will bother you a whole lot less when you stop buying into the system that allows this oppression as an option.

If some system or other is making it difficult for you to be accepted, much less celebrated, for who and what you are, then opt out. Find the courage to call out its blind spots and refuse to acknowledge its narrow, oppressive framework.

When someone calls you a name, and you say, 'No, I'm not that!' you keep the name in place. At best, your denial only identifies you as not being the name, rather than as being the wonderful something else that you are.

I know that terms like fag, dyke, guy in a dress, man and woman can't come close to properly defining who and what I am. So, I've been working at reframing the system of gender that insists on these classifications. Reframing is a lot like redefining. It's about positioning yourself in a way that does not play into the hands of a culture that wants to diminish you. When I'm called names now, it's as though they come at me in slow motion, giving me time to easily dodge them, like Neo or Trinity in The Matrix trilogy. I'm not claiming I can do this every time, but I'm getting better and better at it.

ADVANCED MODE: Once you've reframed a debate, get your new frame more widely agreed upon in order to shift the paradigm of a group or your home, school, business, or country. See #95, Play to a broader audience, and #92, Choose your battles wisely.xxxxxxxxxxUse another word for hello zzz 4 zzz 3 zzz Difficult zzz G zzz delight, spirit, real world zzz Do you know what 'hello' means? I don't. And I find it a little scary that we're a culture of people who greet each other with a word that no one understands. Try greeting people differently.

Say what you mean when you see someone. If you don't know someone, you can always wish them a good morning, good afternoon, or good evening. Namaste (NAH-mah-stay) is a good word to use. Roughly, it means, 'I see that you and I share a common spirit and that pleases me.' Spend a day greeting people in some way that genuinely expresses your happiness in seeing them. See if that makes a difference in your mood.xxxxxxxxxxLearn another language of love zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Difficult zzz YG/ASS zzz spirit, delight, safety zzz Relationships have a lot to do with the coevolution of a language, or languages, that make it safe to say what we mean, and trust that we're being heard. If you want to understand your lover or lovers, and you want them to understand you, you'll need to share several languages so that you may communicate verbally, physically, emotionally, and spiritually about power, identity, and desire. A safe language would mean that you and your lover have a way to tell each other what you want, what you don't want, what you're willing to try, and what your limits are-whether it's sex you're talking about, or living arrangements, or finances, or anything else. Both of you have the right to say yes, no, stop, and slow down.

Here are some other basic words and phrases for you and your lover(s) to know and agree on:

Hello.
I'm not going to hurt you.
Am I interrupting?
May I join you?
Where are your boundaries?
Here are my boundaries.
What pleases you?
This is what pleases me.
I've enjoyed this time with you.
I do not want to see you again.
Please.
Thank you.
Good-bye.
and my favorite . . .
Thank you, Sir. May I have another?

IMPORTANT: Sometimes, despite your charm, intelligence, and great good looks, there will be people you're attracted to who are not attracted to you. The reason he, she or they said no may have very little to do with you. Let go and move on. Someone just as neat or better is out there looking for you. See #46, Find the love of your life.xxxxxxxxxxFlirt with Death zzz 0 zzz 2 zzz Too Easy zzz YG/ASS zzz thrill ride, spirit, if you must zzz This is not a smart thing to do. But we all do it once. We'll stick a screwdriver into an electrical socket or smoke in bed. Or we'll stand closer and closer to the railroad tracks each time a train is coming.

Some people still have unprotected sex. Some people try crack cocaine. Some people take painkillers before they go to an S/M play party. Have you ever done anything like that? Did you like it? Wanna do it again? It's only barely an alternative to killing yourself.

Try doing it via a film or video game first, please. But if you must flirt with Death, I expect you to remember your manners and be a perfect lady or gentleman, regardless of your gender.

FLIRTING DO'S AND DON'TS:

Study Death. Every girl likes to know her beau has made an effort to get to know her better.

Smile! No one-not even Death-likes to hang out with a grumpy poo-poo head! Put a smile on your face using the emotional scale and instructions in the Hello, Cruel Quick-Start Guide.

Remember, the best time to flirt with Death is when you're feeling best about your life!

Study Birth. It's also part of Death's job, and she'll be delighted that you're taking an interest in her work.

Don't push Death! If Death isn't flirting back, take the hint and stop it. Go flirt with Life instead.

There are more tips on flirting with Death in these films: Boys Don't Cry, Secretary, All That Jazz, Crash (Cronenberg), Fight Club, and High Art. And read anything at all by Heather Lewis, because this alternative is lovingly dedicated to her memory.xxxxxxxxxxMake it bleed zzz 1 zzz 4 zzz Too Easy zzz YG-50 zzz relief, if you must zzz For thousands of years and across many cultures, outcasts, outlaws, freaks, and holy people have cut themselves for a variety of harmless reasons they've felt to be important. I am a cutter and a masochist. I don't cut myself because I hate myself or any particular part of my body, but I started out that way.

Cutting yourself is a valid alternative to killing yourself if you feel it is your least self-harming option, but it can quickly spiral out of control. If you're cutting-or if you're thinking about it-it doesn't make you a bad person. But what's your reason for cutting? To heal? To feel? To punish? There are other, safer ways to do all those things. Please do not start cutting yourself if you can help it.

I cut because when I see my blood, it reminds me that I'm alive. Or I cut myself to mark the deaths of loved ones. I cut to make my anguish, grief, or rage leave my body through my blood. Or I cut to proclaim myself a warrior.

So bleed, if that's what it takes to keep you alive another day. If you're going to cut yourself, please try to cut with conscious self-love, never with self-loathing. If you're doing that, or you're cutting yourself out of anger or disgust, or you feel that it's getting out of control, see a doctor because you're in over your head and you need help.xxxxxxxxxxTake drugs. No, really. Take drugs. zzz 1 zzz 3 zzz Too Easy zzz YG zzz if you must zzz Drugging yourself is a valid alternative to killing yourself, but taking drugs without medical or spiritual supervision can easily put you in the position of doing dumb and sometimes harmful things to yourself and to others. If you're doing drugs-or if you're thinking about doing drugs-it doesn't make you a bad person. Doing illegal drugs does make you a criminal, and it can land you in jail. However dumb that is, it's something you want to keep in mind.

There is a drug out there that will make you feel better. That's both the good news and the bad news. Any debate about drugs comes down to this formula: if I put X into my body, I will feel Y. Well, everything you put into your body makes you feel this way or that. If you want to feel better and you find yourself unable to answer any of the following questions about something you want to put into your body, try putting something more self-loving into your body instead:

What is it about your life that taking a drug would make better? I'm not saying don't take drugs. I'm just saying that if you don't answer this question, you'll never have a good reason to judge if your drug of choice is working or not. I'll tell you this much: drugs will not cure your race, age, class, gender, sexuality, popularity, or tax problems.

What is the least harmful substance you can take into your body to make yourself feel better? Please, don't take Vicodin if nicotine will do the trick. And don't take either of those without first trying a nice calming cup of herbal tea. Try to make do with the least harmful drug you can come up with for whatever it is that's ailing you. How can you tell if a drug is harmful? Some drugs will work the first time, the second time, the third time, and maybe even more times after that. Then you'll start to need a larger dose to get the same feeling. If that happens, stop taking that drug. It is not a good drug for you, no matter how good it feels or how much it hurts to stop taking it.

How long do you keep on taking it? Remember, no single alternative to killing yourself is going to work all the time. What alarm are you setting yourself to let you know it's time to switch to another way to keep yourself alive?

How do you stop? Before you start, talk with people who've stopped. Read their stories. Are you prepared to do the kinds of things they've done to stop?

Look, if you are so scared or so hurting or so anything that you just want to get away from it all and none of the other alternatives in this book seem to be working for you, please go see a qualified psychiatrist, nutritionist, or health practitioner. There may be something safe you can take that will make you feel better, and it doesn't cost a million dollars or your soul. But if you tried that and it still didn't work, I'd be a damned mean fool to tell you that killing yourself is better than taking drugs. But here are some things you might want to keep in mind before you take stronger drugs:

There's no guarantee you'll be able to stop. Ever.
Most drugs are illegal to consume or sell. Are you prepared to face the consequences if you are caught?
Drugs of any kind will likely make you less capable of connecting and communicating well with anyone.
Taking any kind of drug, including steroids, will make it difficult for you to work your body well in relationship to your surroundings.
Hallucinogens are rarely fun by yourself. They're much cooler with a spiritually oriented, experienced guide. Why? If you're taking any kind of hallucinogen, boiling hot water might look to you like a cool, refreshing, babbling brook or the fiery depths of Hell itself. You're never really sure.
While you're on drugs, including caffeine and sugar, you can act pretty stupid. With every drug you take, it's likely that you won't know that you're not communicating or acting well in the world.
Every single drug you might want to take to feel better comes with some degree of physical addiction. That means your body will constantly be telling you it wants and needs more, and it'll make you sick to some degree if you don't get it.
Please don't share needles. You could end up with the latest plague and a whole other set of problems to deal with on top of the problems you're taking the drugs to avoid dealing with in the first place. Find yourself a needle exchange program.
And what about the cost of drugs? They get very expensive. You might indeed resort to stealing from people in order to pay for them. Is that something you're prepared to do?

Good luck.xxxxxxxxxxGet sort of clean and sober. zzz 1 zzz 1 zzz Difficult zzz G zzz if you must zzz PLEASE DON'T FUCK WITH THIS ONE IF YOU CAN HELP IT.
WARNING: Reading this may act as a trigger if you are working on a rigorous program of recovery. And no one in their first year of recovery should try it. I mean it. Get clean and sober. Do it. Me, I'm twenty-five years sober, and for the last fifteen years I haven't been very clean. It doesn't work for everyone.

I'm no longer a member of Alcoholics Anonymous, though I still go to meetings from time to time.

When it comes to drugs, if they're there, I'll usually do some. If they're not, I won't. That's how I seem to be wired. Not all AA members embrace me as sober, and they probably wouldn't embrace a stoned sober you. Just like Narcotics Anonymous members probably wouldn't embrace a drunk but clean you. But it's worth going to a meeting even if you aren't gold-star clean and sober.

MESSAGE FOR SPONSORS: Please help your outlaw sponsee stay sober, whether or not he, she, or ze is clean. Please help your sponsee stay clean whether or not he, she, or ze is sober. I'm asking you to trust your sponsee to handle it as long as he, she, or ze follows your program.

POSTMODERN MODE: Develop a workable meeting for pomoholics who are trying to do it in the gray zone. But please . . . do not quit your twelve-step day job until you know the new one works.xxxxxxxxxxStarve yourself zzz 0 zzz 1 zzz Too Easy zzz G zzz if you must zzz Starving yourself is a valid alternative to killing yourself, but only just barely. If you're starving yourself either by not eating or by throwing up what you eat-or if you're thinking about doing that-it doesn't make you a bad person, but you do need medical help. Use another alternative in this book to stay alive while you stop doing this one. This
alternative is the most deadly in the book.

How bad is it? Anorexia can kill you, and in most cases it does. If it doesn't kill you, it can cause permanent damage to any
number of organs. The organ most likely to get screwed up is your heart.

And what do you get out of starving yourself? Maybe some time of being corpse thin. Disappear into thin air thin. But you can never enjoy it, because you're never thin enough. Ever. But you keep on trying. So, you get really bad-looking thin. Sunken eyes, brittle bones, maybe your hair's falling out, but you're too tired to notice or care and your body is covered with something that isn't quite feathers. Then you die, neither peacefully nor painlessly. It's really hard to find anything that's less self-loving than starving yourself.

That said, I've been an active anoretic for the past forty years. My anorexia is periodic, meaning it comes and it goes. I've been hospitalized for anemia, which is what they called it when boys were anoretic in the 1960s. Not eating is something I can do that isn't screaming or lashing out at someone. My anorexia has kept me alive on several occasions when I just wanted to die. It seems I can handle not eating like some people can handle alcohol. You may or may not be that kind of anoretic. Either way, there is no real payoff except the few more days it gives you to find some other reason to stay alive.

Sometimes, to avoid completely starving myself, I stop eating overly processed foods, sugar, and white flour. They aren't good for you anyway. But if cutting back on sweets or fats or carbohydrates or processed foods doesn't work, Weight Watchers always does. While I'm high on my anorexia, it's the hunger itself that triggers me further. They taught me how to eat balanced, satisfying meals so that I can maintain a healthy weight without ever being hungry, and it's sort of fun being one of the few freaky people in one of those meetings.

Remember, anorexia is gender free. Boys and men starve themselves, too. Even heterosexual boys and men. It doesn't mean they're gay or transsexual or anything but anoretic.

CYBER TIP: There are caring, affirmative online communities of people with eating disorders. Some of them are all about getting over your eating disorder. Some of them are about supporting you in your decision to live as long as you can as an active anoretic or bulimic.xxxxxxxxxxPlay musically addictions zzz 1 zzz 1 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz if you must, thrill ride zzz What's an addiction? Anything you do upon which you're physically or mentally dependent. If you're addicted to something, it's difficult to stop without adverse effects.

I've got an addictive personality, which to me means that at any given moment, one or another addiction is more or less active. It's like that arcade game, Whack-a-Mole, where you try to hit moles that pop up and down. It finally dawned on me that I was unconsciously moving from one addiction to another and that I could somehow harness this little ride and consciously shift addictions. This is not the very best way to handle things, but it does work in a pinch. Try to move toward less and less self-harming addictions if you possibly can.xxxxxxxxxxPlead insanity zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Difficult zzz YG/ASS zzz safety, delight, mischief zzz Instead of judging yourself guilty as much as you do, be the judge and find yourself not guilty by reason of insanity. I learned that from a very sweet gay Catholic priest. The Dalai Lama says something along the same lines. When I saw him speak in New York City, someone asked him what to do when you've done something really bad or you've made a big mistake. 'Forgive yourself,' he said, 'and try to do better next time.'

IMPORTANT: If you've never felt guilty about anything, ever, please tell that to a doctor or counselor or therapist.

It's like having no feeling in your fingertips and resting them on a hot stove. Everyone has some guilt. You're just not feeling it, and it's burning the hell out of you even if you don't know it.xxxxxxxxxxDefy prophecy zzz 3 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz clean slate, purpose, relief zzz Many people are awfully fond of predicting what will happen to other, especially younger, people. Most of their prophecies don't amount to very much at all. But every once in a while, someone else's less-than-pleasant prediction of our futures will match up exactly with our low self-esteem or self-doubts, and we'll begin to make someone else's prophecy come true.

So, defy prophecy. Write down everything you can remember that anyone predicted about what you would be, what you would do, or what you would wind up with (or without) by the time you were the age you are right now. Put a star by any of the predictions that came true. Put an X by any that didn't. And by those for which it's too early to tell, put a question mark. Next to each, write down the name of the person who said it. Which are your truest prophets? Which are false?

At the time the predictions were made, which did you think would come true? Were any of these predictions kind? Were any of them unrealistic given who you were at the time? Now, of the predictions that may still come true, put a heart next to the ones that make you feel better about yourself. Write false in big letters through the predictions that make you feel worse about yourself. Write realistic, fun prophecies to replace the false ones.xxxxxxxxxxThrow away morals zzz 2 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz YG/ASS zzz self-esteem, relief, mischief zzz Moral codes are the sociological equivalent of training wheels.

Theoretically, all moral restrictions could be lifted once people are traversing the world more or less kindly. People would just be nice to each other. Moral codes are useful only when we have descended to needing them. The Ten Commandments or the Beatitudes come in handy when we have to make an important decision, or when we're under a great deal of pressure, or when we're thinking about killing ourselves or someone else. We don't have to think too hard, we just remember, 'Thou shalt not kill.'

The problem with most moral codes today is that they don't have much to do with what's actually good for people.

They exist primarily to direct us into predictable and controlled behaviors. People who write moral codes into law don't trust you. They think you and I have to be kept strictly in line. That's called a theocracy, and you don't have to stand for it.

It's healthier for your soul to live outside and above a degraded moral code than within and beneath one.

Prior to throwing away morals altogether, put together and live by your own moral code-one that works and allows you to live a kind and generous life. Make a list of all the moral rules you were raised with. Throw away the ones that don't work for you, and keep the ones that do. Once you're good at living within the boundaries of your own moral code, then you can throw it away and simply get on with living a kind and generous life.xxxxxxxxxxIgnore the Golden Rule zzz 3 zzz 3 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz empowering, spirit zzz My grrlfriend reminded me that there's only one rule to follow in this book, so the Golden Rule had to go. Besides, everyone else ignores the Golden Rule. Why should you be the only poor slob who actually obeys it?

Let's take this thing apart. The Golden Rule is an ethical command, which makes it somewhat more significant than mere morals, which can fluctuate with cultures and subcultures. The Golden Rule is supposed to work for anyone. Do unto others as I would have them do unto me, but which me? And frankly, I really enjoy having things done unto me that not too many people would enjoy having done unto them. How about you? Better to ignore the Golden Rule. If you'd like to follow the spirit of the Golden Rule, just get into the habit of treating people better than they think they deserve to be treated. That ought to make everyone feel just great.xxxxxxxxxxQuote scripture for your own purposes zzz 1 zzz 1 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz mischief, empowering zzz You can't just dismiss an entire movement or religion simply because part of it is a little batty when it comes to people like you.

Part of you is a little batty when it comes to someone else. Yes, it can be more than a little intimidating to find yourself and people like you being railed against in some religious text. If some harmless joy of yours is forbidden or sneered at in some scripture, you can safely assume that the scripture wasn't written for people like you, and you are under no obligation to subscribe to it. Instead, go find yourself some scripture that you do agree with, and quote it for your own purposes. Look at the quote in this illustration. The Bible says there's no such thing as male or female. I love that. You can find something like that for yourself.

DO-IT-YOURSELF SCRIPTURE FINDING: Study scripture and write down all the quotes that support who and what you are in the world, and what you believe in. Use them to make zines, stickers, and posters to your heart's delight.

ADVANCED MODE: Join a scripture discussion group of a religion that disapproves of something you do in your life. Try to be as nice and respectful as you can, please.

ADVANCED MODE, ON THE OTHER HAND: If, on the other hand, it's simply a huge relief to part with a religion's scriptures and it's painful to review them, then go to #85, Throw away morals, and #48, Find your tribe.xxxxxxxxxxWrite your own code of honor zzz 2 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz empowering, real life, purpose zzz There's a lot to be said for a thief 's notions of honor, the pirates' code, and even the rules and regulations of old-school sadomasochists. But no one else's code of honor will work for you 100 percent. You're just going to have to come up with your own.

Codes of honor are simply guidelines we develop or subscribe to in order to remind ourselves to do deeds we can be proud of, and to avoid doing deeds we're ashamed of. Why? Doing things we're proud of makes us feel worthwhile, noble, and good. Doing things we're ashamed of makes us feel depressed and suicidal.

So it becomes important to decide whose definition of shame we rely upon as a yardstick. You do not have to obey any code of honor that asks you to kill yourself for any reason.

Patch together a code of honor for yourself from codes that already exist. Study honorable people and deeds of honor. Look for the honor in everyone you meet. Most outlaw subcultures develop their own codes of honor. Try Googling 'code of honor' and/or 'honor code,' along with the name of the outlaw culture you most resonate with. Carry your code of honor around with you and refer to it from time to time, making changes and adjustments as you need to.xxxxxxxxxxShatter some family values zzz 2 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz spirit, empowering, mischief zzz Sex and gender outlaws are often accused of attacking traditional American family values. Look . . . Don't kill anyone is a value. Don't be a homo is not a value. Beyond making a few privileged people feel like they've been chosen by God, it makes no positive contribution to society whatsoever.

The unwritten, oft hinted at 'family values' that are used to beat up freaks are bogus. They've got nothing to do with family, and you should feel free to shatter them at will.xxxxxxxxxxBelieve in your own laughter zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Easy zzz G zzz delight, body, relief zzz Laughter alone can make you feel better. Your body knows the truth of your laughter and responds with a release of endorphins that makes you feel great. Even if you are über-grouch or über- Goth, you have smiled and laughed enough times during this lifetime for your body to know this: when you smile or laugh, something is funny or pleasing, and that feels good. Smile, right now. Go ahead. When I make myself smile when nothing is particularly funny or pleasing, I can feel the echo in my body of fun and pleasure. If this resonates at all for you, try any number of books on laughter therapy, or check out www.teehee.com.

What kinds of things make you laugh? Keep a small notebook with you and write them down. Put a star next to the ones that aren't at anyone else's expense. Put two stars next to the ones that aren't at your expense either. Do a lot more of the two-star things than the one-star things. Do a lot more of the one-star things than the no-star things. That'll brighten up yer day.xxxxxxxxxxBelieve in your own paradox zzz 3 zzz 4 zzz Difficult zzz G zzz spirit, delight, mind game zzz What is it that puzzles you most? Is there something going on in your life or around you that doesn't quite make sense? Confusion is how you know you're close to something big.Contradiction is how you know you've hit the nail on the head.

Some of the most loving people I know are intense sadists. The most handsome man in my life has a vagina. I am neither a man nor a woman, and I am both. Do you have that kind of stuff going on in your life?

Have you ever followed your curiosity to two different parts of your life, each of which makes sense on its own, but together, cancel one another out? Coming to terms with your own paradox is a jim-dandy way to go on living.

STEP ONE: Experience paradox. Pick a question that interests you from the following list. Each one will lead you to at least one pair of rational opposite answers or opposite points of view, both of which are true. Consider that pair of concepts until you can hold them in your mind as true, both at the same time.

STEP TWO: Experience your own paradox. Work with any of the following questions and concepts, each of which should lead you to some paradox about yourself. Consider that paradox until you can hold it in your mind as neither a good thing nor a bad thing
about yourself.

STEP THREE: Put your paradoxes into words. Paradoxes can be frustrating to the degree that we are unable to communicate them to other people.

ARTSY MODE: Express your paradox in the art form of your choice.xxxxxxxxxxChoose your battles wisely zzz 2 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz YG/ASS zzz safety, purpose, clean slate zzz As peaceful and nonviolent as you'd like yourself to be, your life will undoubtedly include fighting. You're battling the people who think you're too fat or too poor or too girly or too butch, or that think you're a terrorist or a traitor. You're battling the people who never give you a break and always want more than you can possibly give. You're battling injustice as best as you know how. Or, you're battling the traffic on the way home from school or work. We all fight, and if you're reading this book, chances are you're battle weary. You can only take on so much at any given time. The question becomes, how do you choose your points of engagement?

Try this: List the battles you're currently waging and prioritize them. Which can be won the soonest and with the least effort? Pick the ones you know you can win, and go out there and win them.

Pick the hard ones that are most important to you, and battle for them too, even if all odds are against you.

And while all these battles are going on in your life, continually train yourself as a warrior. When possible, learn patiently from an inspiring teacher. Read The Art of War by Sun Tzu. You can download it for free. Print a copy and carry it around with you.

You want to be a leader? You will be.xxxxxxxxxxBring on Goliath zzz 1 zzz 4 zzz Difficult zzz YG/ASS zzz safety, purpose, empowering zzz David was a shepherd who wrote racy poetry. Goliath was a monstrously strong, highly experienced warrior sent by the Philistine commanders to challenge the Israelis over some part of the Middle
East. Every day Goliath would roar his humiliating challenge to the Israelites: 'Where is there among you a champion who will fight me on behalf of all of Israel?' Of course, no one dared answer. For six days, the commanders of the Israeli army faced humiliation as Goliath was daily met by silence, broken only by his haughty laughter. But, on the seventh day, just as Goliath began to laugh and turn away, dreamy hippie David stepped out in front of Goliath and said, 'I'll
take your challenge, Mister!'

While Goliath was overcome by laughter, David calmly twirled his
sling and fired a rock into his head.

Boom! Goliath was toppled, and David, the poet and sheep lover, went on to become the King of Israel. Talk about postmodern identity switching. What have you learned from all this?

You can do what David did. You've got a weapon, too: the perspective of an outsider, which gives you the ability to see situations from multiple points of view. Before you hurl the rock, first try
turning your Goliath into an ally. Failing that, what would it take to surprise, seduce, charm, or shock your Goliath right between the eyes?xxxxxxxxxxSpeak with your ears zzz 3 zzz 3 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz spirit, purpose, empowering zzz The chakras are energy centers located in the body. Eastern healers, philosophers, and holy people have known them for thousands of years. You may have heard of the Third Eye, located on your forehead, right between your eyes. But there's also the Third Ear. It's an energy center located in your throat. It's called 'the voice that listens.' You can hear a voice that listens in folks like Terry Gross, Jon Stewart, Oprah Winfrey, Bill Clinton, Ted Koppel, and dear Phil Donahue. Go, grasshopper, and practice speaking with the voice that listens.xxxxxxxxxxPlay to a broader audience zzz 2 zzz 2 zzz Difficult zzz G zzz purpose, real life, safety zzz Have you got a message to get out to the world? Get it out there. You can do it. Try the following:

1. First, practice getting your message across to people who already agree with
you. Do that for awhile, refining your message as you go.
2. Next, get your message out to people who might agree with you because they have interests similar to yours. Do that for awhile, refining as you go.
3. Then, practice getting your message across to people who disagree with you on most everything. Do that for awhile, again, refining as you go.
4. Now, compare the message you started with to the message you ended up with. Refine your message so that you can still call it your truth.
5. Repeat steps 1-4.

ART MODE: Do you want a larger audience for your art, but you don't want to sell out on your values? Apply the above five steps to the art form that best allows you to express yourself. Keep modifying your art so that more people are willing to experience it. You're stretching the acceptance level of your audience, and your audience is stretching your own level of articulation. Ride the resilient edge of resistance. Keep your art as true to yourself and your values as you can, and keep making your art more and more accessible to more and more people.xxxxxxxxxxTake a vow of silence zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Difficult zzz G zzz comfort, real life zzz When you stop speaking, you can hear what the world really sounds like. You can use a vow of silence when it hurts too much to talk or whenever you just want to listen for a while. You can take a vow of silence when you've said what you feel is enough, and it's time for someone else's voice to be heard.

Do some research on silence. Find out why holy people, musicians, and artists take limited or permanent vows of silence. Apply what you find to your own life or art, and take a vow of silence for two days.

OPTIONAL NEXT STEP: Combine a vow of silence with #7, Trash your preference files and reboot. Reboot into #94, Speak with your ears. That should make for a fun reset.

ZEN MODE: Silly rabbit, Zen is silence.xxxxxxxxxxTake a walk in the woods zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Easy zzz G zzz body, comfort, spirit zzz Nature isn't something out there that grows food for us and supplies us with building materials, and fuel and water. We are Nature, and if we separate ourselves from what is natural for too long, some parts of ourselves may begin to feel like they're dying. Spending time with Nature is bound to make you feel natural.

Spend some time in a park, alone or with a friend. Go to the seashore and slide down some dunes. Hike a mountain trail, swim in a lake, or sunbathe on top of a levee. Go snowboarding.

But even if all you do is open a window and breathe in the city air, some nature is better than none at all.

The time we spend plugged back into Nature reminds us that we are an integral part of a complex ecosystem and that all of us are trying to survive together under hellish circumstances. That's something you can forget if you live in a city or if the Nature you're spending your time in is too well manicured. Working in Nature gives us a body memory of what it's like to be connected to the earth. Resting in Nature reminds us how easy it is to feel healed and nourished, if only for a moment.

CONFINED-TO-BED MODE: Watch as many nature documentaries as you possibly can.

RAINY-DAY ACTIVITY: Walk in the rain without a hat, wig, umbrella, or raincoat.

ZEN MODE: Let the woods walk through you.xxxxxxxxxxLearn moderation in all things zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz real life, comfort, spirit zzz Taking your own life is rarely a moderate thing to do, so this is pretty much a surefire alternative to killing yourself. But this is also the most difficult and frightening alternative in the book, because it brings you face-to-face with every monster and demon you've ever had to deal with: all the extremes of you. It is possible for you to make peace with all of that. Begin your learning by doing anything more moderately. It's easier to initiate with a moderate action than it is to respond with a moderate action. As children, we learned that the way to respond to an extreme point of view is with an opposing and at least equally extreme point of view. That kind of reasoning says that when someone is shouting at you, you shout back as least as loud. Don't do that any more. Find another way to respond, a way that doesn't push back so hard against whatever it is that life is tossing at you.

ADVANCED MODE: Sooner or later in your travels through the horrors of learning moderation, you're going to realize that learning moderation in all things means learning to be moderate with moderation itself. It's Nature's way of saying thank you for being good.xxxxxxxxxxMake your peace with Death zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Difficult zzz G zzz real life, comfort, spirit zzz No one alive knows what death is. No one alive can even prove the exact moment that death takes place. I truly don't mean any disrespect, but what the fuck is your rush?

You can live and die more or less at peace with your life and death, or you can live and die more or less in agony over your life and death. It's totally up to you, and it's not easy for anyone. Even if you're an accomplished peacemaker, it's an entirely different challenge to make peace with the unknown.

Try this: Write down all the reasons you want to die. Each one of those reasons is bringing you closer to dying, so solving each one of those reasons is going to bring you closer to life. Solving each one of those issues while you're still alive is your life's to-do list. Do the easiest one first, and then the next, and then the next. As you solve all your reasons for dying, it gets easier to live. And this lets Death do her work in her own time, which could be a whole lot better time than the time you were considering for yourself.xxxxxxxxxxTidy your campsite before you move on zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz YG/ASS zzz clean slate, spirit, comfort zzz We can build up a lot of resentments and regrets moving from identity to identity, exploring desire after desire, and practicing with varying degrees of power. If we don't clean up after ourselves, we can leave quite a series of messes. The fair and hon0rable thing is to tidy up all your messes before you leave an identity, location, or station in life. But just like in the movies, we all sometimes have to pack up and leave town in a hurry, and we don't have time to clean up. Try your best to clean up before you leave anything, and don't even think about killing yourself until you're very, very good at this.

POST-FACTO MODE: Can you tidy your campsite in retrospect?
Absolutely. Try the twelve-step style fearless personal inventory of all your deeds, then share that inventory with another person and make amends wherever possible. If that's too hard, say a sincere 'I'm sorry.'xxxxxxxxxxTry to keep someone else alive zzz 4 zzz 4 zzz Tricky zzz G zzz delight, comfort, relief zzz Dear Heart,
If you're considering this alternative to taking your own life, you've certainly been there and done plenty. Bless your heart, you're alive and kicking, and there's someone who could gain a great deal of strength and hope from hearing your story. With your heavily notated copy of Hello, Cruel World under your arm, you are ready to go out there and save some lives. Keep in mind that the best you can ever do is try. It's never your fault if you try to save someone's life and they kill themselves anyway. Whether or not you're successful, you'll release a great deal of good energy into the world. A lot of people all around you will feel better, whether or not they know that you had something to do with it. That's something you can enjoy.

There are plenty of suicide-prevention foundations that could use volunteers. You could get training as a counselor. Maybe there's a suicide hotline you could help staff. Maybe it's time to set one up in your area. Or maybe you just need to spend an evening talking with a friend. Enjoy life while you're doing that. I did, as best I could, while I was writing this book for you. Thank you for the opportunity to contribute to your life span.

I expect you'll make very good use of your extra years. And since I really don't like good-byes, I'll say, hello, cruel world. I believe it's a much better place for your being in it.

Love and respect always,
Katexxxxxxxxxx